A woman notorious for dining out on lavish meals and then refusing to pay has been banned from every restaurant, bar and take-away, in an area of more than 400 square miles.Janine Maria Allinson, 24, faces jail if she tries to get a meal without showing in advance that she has got money or other "valid means" to meet any bill she runs up. The order applies to all outlets in "greater Leeds", an area extending from the M62 south of the city to Wetherby and Otley in Wharfedale, north of Leeds. The conditions also ban her from buying food or drink for immediate consumption from shops without similar proof of ability to pay. The order was imposed yesterday by Leeds magistrates after a string of complaints to the city council over incidents in the past three years. The court heard that Allinson, of Cross Green in Leeds, had become notorious in Leeds' many restaurants for deliberately avoiding her bills. She called for meals, usually with friends or family, ran up a large order and then turned abusive and sometimes violent when asked to pay. The court order, effective for five years, also requires her "not to engage in conduct which causes or is likely to cause alarm, distress or harassment to others, or incite or encourage others to do so". Giovanni Campagna, the manager of Da Mario Italian restaurant in central Leeds, said that Allinson had dined there with a group of children but balked at the £150 bill. He said: "She said she couldn't pay so we asked her to leave. Unbelievably she came back and asked if she could finish her drink. Then she started smashing plates and chairs. "She even grabbed some oranges and started throwing them around. It was absolute chaos. The damage came to about £500. There has been a growing trend in recent years, especially among women, not to pay - and they are getting away with it." The order was welcomed by the leader of Leeds city council, Keith Wakefield. He said: "Nobody should have to put up with this type of abuse and aggression. I'm sure this will send a clear message to the minority of people who refuse to toe the line and who make the lives of law-abiding citizens a misery." But Mr Campagna called for tougher action in future against deliberate non-payers. He said: "To be honest, I think she has got away with it. In my view it was theft."