Rows between home secretaries and the judiciary about sentencing are the stuff of modern politics. David Blunkett, who picked repeated fights with the courts, is said to have hated the judges from childhood; many judges repaid him with rich contempt. But Michael Howard's 1996 sentencing white paper provoked a furore that exceeded anything under Labour, causing the lord chief justice, Lord Taylor, to stand up in parliament and denounce the proposals as flimsy and dubious. Some perspective is therefore needed in the latest argument between John Reid and the judges.Nor is there anything inherently wrong about politicians and judges conducting a vigorous public debate about sentencing. These are public issues on which both have things to say and a right to be heard. Politicians must take great care not to undermine respect for the rule of law, just as judges have to be careful not to step too far into the political arena. Even so, ministers are entitled to express the government's views and the judges need to be aware of the public mood.But the current arguments go far beyond this position. Ministers are now carrying the fight from general issues of sentencing policy to find fault with individual sentences passed on particular offenders. A month ago the prime minister called for the overturning of a high court ruling on Afghan asylum seekers that he dubbed an "abuse of common sense". Now Mr Reid has attacked a sentence on a Cardiff paedophile as "unduly lenient" within hours of it being handed down and has called on the attorney-general to refer the matter to the court of appeal. This is beginning to feel like a ministerial campaign.Such comments are hard to reconcile with respect for the rule of law. Part of the reason for saying this is that, in both the cases just mentioned, ministers have so mischievously and destructively misrepresented the facts. Tony Blair even got the law wrong in his comments on the Afghan case, but by then his opportunist attack on the Human Rights Act was toothpaste out of the tube. And Mr Reid is also alarming the public by implying that the life sentence the paedophile received was "unduly lenient" because his first chance of parole would come after only five years. The offender may indeed be considered for parole during his sixth year inside, but there is no guarantee that he will then be released. The judge will have a say in the parole decision. In court he specifically said that an early release was "unlikely".Ministers have built an Aunt Sally that they are now duly assaulting. Yet the truth is that sentences have gone up, not down, and that tariffs have risen, not fallen. Where judges have been unduly lenient, sentences can be, and are, appealed against. In a handful of cases this is necessary. Most of the time it is not. If offenders are wrongly released on licence the fault lies with the parole process, not the judges. It is a myth that the courts are in the grip of softies or fools. Who is saying that dangerous convicted paedophiles should be released after five years? Nobody. The tabloid story of a criminal-justice system run by lenient liberals is a myth. Ministers should be dampening these flames down, not pouring petrol on them.This campaign has got little to do with reforming the criminal-justice system. It is about Labour, sliding in the polls and alarmed by its own mortality, desperately attempting to jump on a bandwagon and willing to trash important principles in order to do so. We have a perfectly good system for reviewing the few rogue sentences that the system generates, vigorously managed by the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith. It should be left in place. The current hysteria does little to protect the public and much to destroy public confidence in the criminal-justice system. It substitutes the rule of the lynch mob for the rule of law. It is time for the government to call off the dogs.