I feel sorry for John Prescott. He is labelled a traitor for opposing Tony Blair's policy on schools. But he is not the only viper in the nest. There is another. The home secretary, Charles Clarke, wants urgently to abolish the 43 local police authorities in England and Wales in favour of 12 regional agencies. His office has been trying to do this for years and has always failed.Opposition was never more lethally articulated than by one of Mr Clarke's colleagues. The policy is "the most determined and least popular attempt ever made to centralise policing in Britain, to give ministers unprecedented control over the way that the police do their work, and to undermine police independence. It is driven not just by short-term cost-cutting, but by an ideology that resents local freedom, and has an aversion bordering on paranoia to local government." Anyone proposing such a policy should be put "in a padded cell with his arms stuck behind his back while he was examined by a range of psychoanalysts".So who dares assault this flagship Blairite reform? Why, none other than Tony Blair. When the identical policy was last presented to parliament (by Michael Howard in April 1994), Blair was apoplectic. The policy was nothing short of "a denial of constitutional principle". Then, of course, Blair was in opposition. Treason is indeed a question of dates.If there is any fixed point in politics, it is the craving of interior ministers to have their own police. Robert Peel sought a national force in 1828, but was stopped by parliament and allowed to run only the Met in London (hence bobbies). In 1964 the Home Office merged 123 local watch committees into 47, but that was just a sensible linking of city and county forces. When in 1994 Howard tried to cut this in half - allegedly to get them all round his office table - the reaction was outrage.Every former home secretary - including Lords Whitelaw, Jenkins and Callaghan - had castigated the measure as illiberal, inefficient and unBritish. Blair at the time was hopping from leg to leg in glee. There was no evidence that big was beautiful in running police. People, at least outside London, liked having their local police answerable to local priorities. This might be inconvenient to the Home Office, but its running of the Met was a classic case of inefficiency, cost and corruption. The Home Office backed off in 1994, but only to fight another day.The Home Office is like the Foreign Office. It has government policies and its own policies. The latter are traditionally authoritarian: detention without trial, executive sentencing, suppression of free speech and centralised police. Strong politicians smile and resist. Week ones concede a bauble or two, a longer sentence or a sacked chief constable. But the arrival of the weakest, Charles Clarke, led the Home Office to think it had hit the jackpot (or jackboot).Since then the department has suffered one rebuff after another: 90-day detention without trial was stopped; curbs on free speech are opposed in parliament; the judges have hit back on sentencing. The Home Office is all the more desperate to push for a central police force. In October the chief inspector of constabulary, Denis O'Connor, produced a consultation document - Whitehall-speak for diktat - on replacing the 43 surviving forces in England and Wales with Home Office outposts. The report was replete with such Blair buzzwords as global terrorism, drug traffickers, paeodophilia, computers, 21st century and "fit for purpose".O'Connor, one of Britain's more intelligent policemen, was on a hiding to nothing. He reported with only three months' consultation before a decision in the new year. Millions of pounds are being offered to forces that cooperate in their own demise (and jobs to compliant chief constables). The 12 regions will mean colossal upheaval, but Clarke has money to burn on bureaucracy. The giant "forces" will have above 4,000 officers, with barely 5% on patrol at any one time. The police minister, Hazel Blears, said this meant "more effective community policing". I am sure it means motherhood and apple pie.Clarke's policy is dominated by his obsession with Islamist terrorism. The only mystery is how merging Kent, Sussex and Surrey, or Caernarvon and Cardiff, would help. What happens when a terrorist nips up the A34 from Winchester to Oxford? How can Leeds be saved from weapons of mass destruction with police from Manchester? Surely Clarke's paranoia can be met only by just one force.I imagine the Home Office reckons 12 is roughly what it can get inside three months. Then it will reorganise down to six. (When this government thinks to decentralise power, as with local taxes, it leaves reform on ice for five years.) The new regions will be like hospital boards and development agencies, entirely under Whitehall control, with no trace of dreaded local democracy. Hazel Blears declared last October that "reducing variations in performance between forces is a cornerstone of the government's reform agenda". Centralism could hardly be more explicit.The glamorous crimes that fix in the Home Office's mind - international, sexual and narcotic - comprise a fraction of those that concern normal citizens. They require national intelligence and enforcement, a British FBI. This is reflected in the Home Office's much-trumpeted units covering serious and organised crime. If these do their job, there should be no need to end local police accountability. Traffic, burglary, street crime, community relations and Asbos require not just local organisation but ownership. Otherwise police are just an agency of a distant power, an enemy. Constables know this; no public service is more local than policing.British constabulary, once the envy of the world, has been steadily removed from the community - beat policing has collapsed, unlike violent and street crime, guns, fear of crime and expenditure. Force amalgamation has brought boys with toys, but no other benefits. It has not worked, any more than it has abroad. Even the Audit Commission admits that there is no statistical relationship between bigness and efficiency, as is borne out by a 2003 study from Policy Exchange, which showed small forces consistently outshining big ones. Yet the Home Office, whose custodianship of the massive Met has seen 50 years of incompetence, wants ever more. It does so purely from a craving for control.Once upon a time Blair knew this was wrong. Now that control is in his hands he has changed his mind. He hopes nobody will notice.simon.jenkins@theguardian.com