Families of the victims of Harold Shipman face a battle for compensation this week as the murderous doctor is finally unmasked as the biggest serial killer in British criminal history.The families of up to 300 people will learn that their loved ones were probably murdered by their own trusted GP, as the public inquiry into the Shipman case reveals its early findings. The toll, which eclipses the killings of such notorious murderers as Dennis Nielsen and Fred West, includes a significant number of men as well as the elderly women patients previously seen as his prey. So many victims may have been female partly because women more commonly lived alone, giving Shipman the privacy he needed to strike with a lethal injection of diamorphine. Ann Alexander, the solicitor representing up to 200 of the families, said yesterday that medical authorities could now face lawsuits over a failure to prevent what the families' counsel, Richard Lissack QC, called 'the ultimate betrayal'. The compensation bill is already expected to top £1 million, with pay-outs in many cases hanging on the verdict of inquiry chair Dame Janet Smith. Ministers also expect an emotional outpouring as the scale of the human cost emerges. 'This will stir up a lot of painful memories,' said one Department of Health source.The harrowing testimony presented to Smith, who has studied 459 deaths, reveals a man by turns chillingly callous and yet so apparently devoted to patients that he fooled the outside world for more than two decades. The son and daughter-in-law of one suspected victim, Gladys Roberts, were brutally dismissed as Shipman threw the death certificate across his surgery desk with the words: 'This is how we end up - just a piece of paper.' Yet Shipman sent a sympathy card to the daughter of Elizabeth Battersby, a 70-year-old widow he is now suspected of killing. Mrs Battersby, who was found dead with a half-drunk cup of tea and a folded newspaper at her side, may have sealed her fate simply by refusing his advice to go into hospital for a blood clot in her leg. The inquiry's counsel, Caroline Swift, argues in her submission that by staying at home, 'she herself created the opportunity for him [to kill]'. Although the 15 murders for which he was jailed for life were all committed in Hyde, near Manchester, the Pennine town of Todmorden - where Shipman practised for 18 months in the Seventies - is now braced for confirmation that he killed there too. 'I suspect that the numbers are perhaps greater than any one in Todmorden realised, and people may be profoundly shocked,' says Chris McCafferty, MP for Calder Valley, which includes the town. The first report excludes the role of the medical authorities and the first police investigation into Shipman - prompted by a worried GP - which found no evidence of foul play, allowing him to continue his deadly home visits. Both issues will be tackled next year. However, each family will receive Smith's 'verdict' on their individual case two days before the report's publication on Friday, ranging from death by entirely natural causes to unlawful killing. The compensation battle will centre on those told that the death is suspicious, but that nothing can be proven. The Criminal Injuries Compensation Board has paid out more than £731,000 in cases where the courts or coroner ruled a patient had been unlawfully killed, but 85 applications are still pending. If they are refused, lawsuits could follow against West Pennines Health Authority and others. 'The board have said they will pay out in cases in which she makes a finding of unlawful killing, but we do not know what the position is going to be in cases where there is a degree of suspicion,' said Alexander. 'This will be an issue for us to discuss with them once we know the range of verdicts, and then to consider whether there are any other options open to the families. That would include potentially the health authority and any other agencies who could be demonstrated to have failed them.' From this autumn, GPs will be forced to pass a criminal records check - exposing warning signs such as Shipman's 1976 conviction for abuse of the prescription drug pethidine - to report deaths in their own surgeries, and to declare gifts from patients. Shipman was caught only after forging a victim's will in his favour. The enduring mystery at the heart of the Shipman case, however, is not how he killed, but why. His silent wife Primrose has betrayed no secrets; psychiatric reports suggest Shipman simply enjoyed watching people die, noting the experience of his beloved mother's death from cancer when he was 17. The teenage Shipman saw her receiving painkilling injections of morphine: was he replaying this scene? Alexander believes he relished his total control over patients: the inquiry heard Shipman had 'toyed with them, ending lives, friendships and marriages, robbing children and grandchildren of parents and grandparents as and when he wished.' In one street alone in Hyde, up to eight patients died after Shipman came calling.