It has been a difficult few months for opponents of multi cultural Britain. Rarely has the quest for racial justice received such widespread backing as the courageous campaign which Neville and Doreen Lawrence launched to root out racism in British society. Most of the critics of multi racial Britain were forced to retreat in the face of the damning and undiluted racism which the Lawrence inquiry exposed. A rightwing press, which covers up its support for unspeakable attitudes by purporting to be merely opposing political correctness, has been on the defensive. But it could not last. The backlash was bound to come. It began on Wednesday with the publication of the Lawrence report. The Telegraph has been in the lead but the Mail, which played a crucial role in highlighting the Lawrence case by identifying the five white racists suspected of murdering Stephen, has been slowly reverting to type with successive leading-page features to reassure any nervous readers that they had not gone over the top. Both papers have distorted the Inquiry's findings by suggesting that institutional racism implies we're all racist. It means nothing of the sort. The definition applies to institutions, not individuals; embraces unintentional as well as intentional racism. Undaunted both papers have attacked this straw man: on successive days the Mail has been reassuring the right 'Why I don't believe that the British are racists' was followed yesterday by 'Racism? Don't blame the whole of Britain'. Stand by for police officers who are unable to pursue black offenders for fear of being labelled racist. The Telegraph had the first of no doubt a succession of such stories yesterday. Phooey. Remember the majority of black crimes are committed against black people. Ask the people of Toxteth. They were living in a virtual no-go area, but when a child was killed by a drug runner's dangerously driven car, it was the mothers of the district who united together and brought the police in.  What the Telegraph ignores is that if the Lawrence inquiry succeeeds and makes the police more effective and efficient, it is not just the black community who will benefit but every other other community as well: white middle class, elderly and the retired, disgruntled colonels in Worthing as well as Asian, gay, and eccentric people. Then there is a third front of attack: Jack Straw's sensible targets for increasing the recruitment and promotion of black and Asian people in the police could lower standards according to a piece filed to the Telegraph from New York. Affirmative action came under a Republican whitelash in America earlier this decade. Angry white males were intent on rolling it back but they were rightly defeated by President Clinton in the last election. Entry rules were changed in America but irrelevant rules like flat feet, which kept many black people out of the police service or height requirements which inappropriately excluded many people of Puerto Rican origins. American police chiefs find it unbelievable that Britain is still trying to police black and Asian communities with essentially a white force. What must really worry the right is the shift in the commitment to a racially just society in Britain. All five main political leaders before the last election signed up to a Commission for Racial Equality commitment to discipline members using language designed to stir up racial prejudice. Norman Tebbit was slapped down by William Hague 18 months ago when he called for an end to the 'divisive force' of multi-culturalism. Fortunately multi-culturalism is something we can all celebrate. It has brought vibrancy, energy and vitality to a wide range of cultural and sporting activities: art, music, dance, language, food, fashion, football, cricket and athletics. Britain is a better place for it.