Will the proposed rollout of higher fines make us offend less? The government has announced a fourfold increase of the maximum penalties available to magistrate courts. This means people caught speeding on the motorway could be charged up to £10,000. Fines are the most common sentence given to offenders at all courts, and account for two thirds of sentences. In magistrates courts, however, fines still make up almost 75% of all sentences.The magistrates court is a lower court, which usually deals with minor criminal offences. These are smaller crimes which can be punished with lower sentencing powers such as community sentences, short custody and, in the majority of cases, fines.The total collected by magistrates courts reached a record high of £284m between 2012 and 2013. Theoretically bigger fines will move simply to increase the amount of income received through criminal proceedings. Under the proposed changes the maximums in each category will increase as follows:Level 1 Up from £200 to £800. Includes unauthorised cycle racing on public ways.Level 2 From £500 to £2,000. Includes driving a motor cycle without a protective helmet.Level 3 From £1,000 to £4,000. Includes the sale of alcohol to a drunk person or being drunk and disorderly in a public place.Level 4 From £2,500 to £10,000. Includes speeding on the motorway.We had a look at the data for all convictions from January to December 2013 in England and Wales. Over this time a total of 1,127,174 sentences were recorded by the Ministry of Justice (MoJ), with the majority of them (875,870) coming from a magistrates court.As mentioned above, in almost 75% of criminal offences tried in a magistrates court in the UK in 2013, a fine was imposed.There are, however, large differences between types of crime. While violent crimes and the most serious thefts are mainly punished by immediate custody, fines are more common for driving offences, drug related crimes and public disorder.Assuming that magistrates are still levying maximum fines at the same rate as they did in 2013, an increase in the monetary penalty magistrates can impose is only likely to affect a small proportion of the crimes for which fines are given most frequently. The question is: why the increase from £2,500 to £10,000 for speeding offences? Less than 20% of driving offences where a fine was imposed had a penalty higher than £200. Just 0.15% were forced to pay over £1,000. Unfortunately the data for driving offences cannot be broken down to show just speeding fines.Simply increasing the maximum fines imposable by magistrates may not change much, it seems, as magistrates currently rarely use high fines in sentencing at all. It remains to be seen how the proposed maximum fine increases will affect sentencing of lesser crimes in magistrates courts in practice when they are introduced. Download the data• DATA: download the full spreadsheetMore open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianDevelopment and aid data• Search the world’s global development data with our gatewayCan you do more with this data?• Contact us at data@theguardian.com• Follow us on Twitter• Like us on Facebook