Police investigating the murder of a teenage girl have arrested a 19-year-old man in connection with her death.The 15-year-old victim, named locally as Megan-Leigh Peat, died from "serious injuries" at a property in Befordshire in the early hours of Saturday morning.Neighbours claim she was stabbed to death at a house party, although police have yet to confirm the cause of death. A post mortem examination was due to take place later on Sunday.Officers were called to the property in Ailesbury Road, Ampthill, at around 1.30am following reports that a person had been fatally injured.A spokesman for Bedfordshire police said: "We have begun a murder investigation after a woman died from serious injuries."A 19-year-old man has been arrested in connection with this incident."Flowers and handwritten notes were left at the house paying tribute to the teenager who has been described as a "beautiful girl".One friend wrote: "The emptiness and hurt you have left so many of us with is unimaginable. A beautiful girl on the inside and out, whose life was just beginning."Another note read: "Heaven has gained an angel."Messages were also left on Facebook and Twitter.Annie Austin tweeted: "You were taken from us far too young ... always in my heart beautiful."One friend posted pictures of the teenager with the caption: "my beautiful best friend, who was murdered last night. r.i.p beautiful. i love you so much."Another said: "Still can't believe this has happened, going to miss seeing you up to mischief at school."School friends who laid flowers and a photograph at the police cordon described the teenager as a "party girl" and "the hero of the school".Chelsie McAneny, 16, said she shared learning support lessons with Megan-Leigh at Harlington Upper School.She added: "Everyone loved her, she was bubbly and popular and she stuck up for everyone, even when she was down."She was a party girl, she loved it. You could hear her a mile away. Everyone would say she was a good friend."Another friend said: "Megan was the hero of the school, she was beautiful and she was always so supportive."Neighbours have expressed their shock at the murder, with one describing the scene outside the property as "like a movie set".The man, who asked not to be named, said he had returned home at around 2.30am to find the house cordoned off by the emergency services."When I left it was all quiet, but by the time I got back there were police vans and cars and paramedics outside the house," he added. "There must have been six police cars."I woke my girlfriend to show her and she was in shock. It was like a movie set. One of the neighbours came over to fill me in on what had happened. It's shocking because nothing ever happens in Ampthill."The 19-year-old man remained in police custody for questioning.