Downing Street has ordered that experimental night and weekend courts to dispense immediate punishment to adult hooligans, violent drunks and persistent teenage offenders be introduced next January, despite Home Office warnings of severe difficulties with the plans.Whitehall papers show that the courts, in London and Manchester, will sit until midnight and at weekends to hand out instant justice in crime hot spots to deter local criminals and reassure local communities. The pilot schemes are to go ahead despite Home Office misgivings that some defendants will be unfit to plead because they will be too drunk or drugged to understand the proceedings, and that it might be better to leave violent individuals to "cool off" overnight in the cells rather than dealing with them so quickly they are out on the streets again the same night. They also warn that prisons do not take in inmates at night so prisoners will have to be held in police cells. Civil servants also have misgivings that "instant trials" could lead to difficulties with legal representation, witnesses, and disclosure of evidence if defendants plead not guilty. They say that in cases involving young teenagers the courts could not deal with cases after 9.30pm because of travel problems and the "availability of parents with childcare needs". They also say that youths going home after late hearings could breach curfew orders and might commit further offences on their way home. The six month pilot schemes will start in January at Horseferry Road magistrates court in central London, dealing with adults from 10am to midnight for at least six days a week, and at the West London youth court to deal with persistent teenage offenders from 10am to 10pm for at least six days a week. Manchester city court will deal with adult and youth cases and sit from 10am to 10pm at least six days a week. Last night Harry Fletcher, of the National Association of Probation Officers, said the leak showed that "instant hearings could undermine justice". "Delays are the curse of criminal justice, not the lack of court time. What is needed is better coordination and preparation by all the agencies involved to bring an end to the adjournment culture." The leaked paper, from the Lord Chancellor, Lord Irvine's Trials Issues Group, makes clear that Downing Street warmly embraced the idea after being impressed by American "zero tolerance" initiatives. "The idea for extended sitting hours in high crime areas was driven primarily by the experience of the Metropolitan police commissioner during his visit to New York. This has been widely reported in the media and has attracted attention both favourable and adverse." The internal papers say that the lack of custom built buildings with courtrooms and cells, which are widely avail able in New York, could prove a problem. The papers also show that Whitehall has been split over whether the experiment should focus on adults or young offenders: "It has become clear that at a local level there is a wish to include high volume adult offenders and to achieve especially in London what the Metropolitan police term the 'impact of immediate sanction' for all types of offender. "No 10 policy unit have indicated that their preference for such a scheme would be persistent young offenders and disorder cases, although they would not rule out other options." Downing Street has also insisted that the pilot schemes go ahead as soon as possible so that plans to extend them could be finalised in next year's public spending round. No 10 had hoped the pilot schemes would start next month but they have been put back three months because the courts, the police and others involved say that would not give them time to put the necessary regime in place. The papers admit that the night courts are most likely to have a positive impact on public confidence in tackling crime, and could cut delays and backlogs in some courts.