Baby P's awful, tragic case raises many issues, which are being widely debated throughout the media. From my perspective, however, what doesn't seem to be attracting the same degree of comment are some of the more abstract but underlying issues related to child deaths in this country – where, we should remember, two children a week are murdered by their parents or carers – as opposed to the widespread and understandable desire to see pragmatic changes in social work practice.I was particularly struck, for example, by the description of a detective who worked on the case of Baby P's mother's boyfriend – who inflicted many of the injuries on the child – as "sadistic – fascinated with pain", and who may well have tortured his younger brother during childhood. This boyfriend was also said to be "simple", and to be fascinated with Nazism. Leaving this latter description to one side for a moment, let's try and deal with the issue of sadism.Sadism is behaviour which has been learned over a long period of time and, as such, sadistic acts are prolonged – rather than committed on the spur of the moment – and specifically feed off the reactions of the person who is the object of these sadistic acts. In short, the sadist needs the person who is being tortured, battered and abused to show their fear and distress, and it is their reaction that, in fact, reinforces the sadist's behaviour. Indeed, it is this specific component of sadism that helps to answer that common sense question about why and how people are able to hurt a child over a long period of time, as opposed to those parents or carers who might lash out at a child in response to a specific set of circumstances. Poor Baby P: I can almost see him smiling in the hope that this would bring relief, but, in fact, it would merely generate more blows, and that might explain why he was "used almost like a punchbag".This boyfriend was also described as "simple". But "simple" should not imply that he was unable to understand the hurt that he was causing to Baby P, nor that he did not understand that this behaviour was appalling. Indeed, his understanding that it was wrong led to various strategies being adopted to avoid detection – including smearing chocolate onto the baby in order to hide the child's bruises. This is not the behaviour of someone who is "simple", but rather the behaviour of someone who recognises that what he is doing is wrong and therefore needs to be hidden, camouflaged and masked. His understanding that this behaviour was wrong is precisely why he would have gone to such lengths to ensure that social workers would not have been able to detect what had been happening to Baby P.Of course, Baby P's mother and a second male named Jason Owen – who, by all accounts, dominated the first boyfriend – are also implicated here. Specifically, they helped to create and then perpetuate a domestic culture in which the daily torture of a small child became normal and routine; a world in which Baby P became less than human and therefore capable of being degraded and ultimately killed. Here, we might like to see this as a folie à trios – literally, a madness shared by three, although such sadistic madness doesn't just need to be shared by a small number but can be shared more broadly, as the allusion to Nazism reminds us.But why do children – especially male children, in fact – fall victim to murder by their parents or carers so regularly in this country? Here, I believe we need to look again more broadly than social work arrangements and the better training of social workers to recognise when deceit is being practised on them. By all means, let's deal with those practicalities, which will better protect children in the short term, but for me, we cannot ignore the long term – in other words, those broader, cultural, structural systems that continue to see children as the property of their parents, and therefore voiceless, powerless and ultimately disposable.This structural approach will, of course, bring no comfort to Baby P – more's the pity – but perhaps,if we lived in a culture that didn't, for example, condone the smacking of children, or the taking of legal action against a terminally-ill 13 year old to force that child into treatment that she did not want, we might conceivably begin to change our culture so that there would be fewer Baby Ps in the future.