The home secretary, David Blunkett, today warned that the struggling prison service could no longer cope with the explosion in the inmate population and called for increased use of electronic tagging to ease the situation.He also laid down a clear marker to the chancellor, Gordon Brown, ahead of next month's budget, indicating that the fight against crime could be lost if the government concentrates increased public spending on the NHS.Mr Blunkett acknowledged that while overall crime levels were falling, there had been a particular problem with street crime. "What has happened in the last two years in an absolute explosion of street crime and robbery, not just linked to mobile phones - but it is part of that problem - but also to copycat action and youngsters believing they can get away with it," he said. The home secretary's warning about the state of the prison service follows warnings from prison governors across the country. "We are still miles off being able to meet the demand. The demand is a 4,000 increase in the prison population in the first two months of this year," he said. "We have never experienced anything like it and I have to get a grip of it." Mr Blunkett confirmed that he believes that electronic tagging should now be the first option for offenders who would in the past have been given brief prison sentences. The move will lead to hundreds of offenders, including people convicted of burglary and drug offences, being released up to two months earlier than expected.He fiercely denied that the move represented a u-turn and said it was consistent with the government's policy of dealing with less serious offenders as far as possible in the community."He said that the reoffending rate among offenders while they were electronically tagged was just 2% compared to an overall rate of 56% for prisoners. "I have to make decisions that both catch the criminals, punish them appropriately, stop them re-offending and have a prison service that has some chance of rehabilitation if they are not going to continue to re-offend," he said. "Instead of giving people a binbag full of their belongings and simply dumping them out of the door - which regrettably for short term prisoners is what we do - we actually tag them, we follow them, we make sure that in the two months that they have been released early they are curfewed and if they break that curfew they are back inside. "I hope the more rational, the more thinking, the more intelligent of our newspapers will not report this as some sort of u-turn, but a logical, intelligent way of ensuring that what we do in our prisons has some impact on re-offending." Mr Blunkett said that despite a rise in the number of prison places over the past five years, the system was still "miles off" being able to meet the demand. "There has been a 75% increase in the prison population since the mid-90s," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. His outspoken comments came a day after Mr Brown said that there would be "no blank cheques" for public services and indicated that the national health service would be the top priority. This morning Mr Blunkett stressed that the government had to be sure all its priority areas - including crime - were properly funded within the resources available. "Of course it involves sensible resourcing. Just a I have a responsibility for ensuring that I back Gordon Brown in the prudent measures that have led us to sustain our economic success, so collectively we all carry responsibility for what we can afford to spend and what our priorities are," he said. His remarks amount to an open challenge to the chancellor as departments bid for funding increases over the next three years. The chancellor will announce the result of the spending round in July. Mr Blunkett hinted strongly that he believed the Home Office had struggled to receive the funds it needed under his predecessor Jack Straw. "In the nine months since I took over from Jack, I realise what tremendous battle Jack Straw had had to get the resources," he said. "We all know about implementing reform with very little resource." Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, said that Mr Blunkett no longer had a "coherent policy" on crime. "What is the point of arresting them if you are not willing to allow those who are sentenced by judges to serve their sentences because you cannot persuade your chancellor to build enough prisons to accommodate them? This is not a coherent policy," he told the Today programme. Former high court judge Sir Michael Davies said Mr Blunkett's remarks were "insensitive and ill-timed" and would only "depress the public and encourage the criminal".