A senior judge demanded proof of Giovanni di Stefano's legal qualifications yesterday and disclosed that the controversial "lawyer" and convicted fraudster had signed court papers for the timeshare swindler John Palmer's unsuccessful appeal against a £2m compensation order.A fortnight after the Guardian revealed that the Law Society and the police were investigating Mr Di Stefano's claims to be a qualified lawyer, Lord Justice Rose queried his professional status with Jerome Lynch QC, Palmer's counsel. The judge, the vice president of the court of appeal criminal division, said the grounds of appeal had been signed by leading counsel - not Mr Lynch - two junior counsel, and "somewhat unusually" by Paul Martin, an instructing solicitor, and Mr Di Stefano. Mr Di Stefano had also signed two advice notes sent to the court. "Usually, documents of this kind emanate either from a member of the bar of England and Wales or a solicitor with higher rights of audience" said Lord Justice Rose. "Mr Di Stefano doesn't appear to be in either of those categories. How does it come about that he submits advices to this court?" Mr Lynch later told the court that Mr Di Stefano had been given power of attorney from Palmer to instruct lawyers, and that an EC directive gave European lawyers the same rights of audience as English lawyers in an English court. Asked by Lord Justice Rose when and where Mr Di Stefano had qualified as a lawyer, Mr Lynch said he did not know. The judge said: "He [Mr Di Stefano] has been conducting this appeal. That's the position, isn't it? We shall consider what, if anything, further needs to be done." Mr Di Stefano claims to have qualified in Italy, entitling him to practise occasionally in the UK under EC rules, but he has so far refused to provide any evidence of his qualifications. He is also a convicted fraudster. He insists that his 1986 conviction was overturned, but the Guardian has a copy of a January 1987 judgment dismissing his appeal. Mr Di Stefano, who has represented the controversial property tycoon Nicholas van Hoogstraten, also claimed to act for the serial killer Harold Shipman, who recently killed himself. But Bindman & Partners, the London solicitors who acted for Shipman, said they had no knowledge of this. Outside court yesterday, Mr Di Stefano produced an Italian identity card stating his occupation as avvocato - lawyer - and membership cards of the American Bar Association and International Bar Association (IBA). But none of these is proof of legal qualifications, and the Guardian discovered yesterday that he is being investigated by the IBA's ethics committee. Mark Ellis, executive director of the IBA, said members had to be members of the legal profession. "If there is doubt about a member's credentials, he or she is subject to investigation. That is happening right now as regards Mr Di Stefano." The Chicago-based American Bar Association is a voluntary organisation and members do not have to be qualified lawyers to join. Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Poole and Mr Justice Davis turned down Palmer's appeal to halve the £2m compensation he had been ordered to pay to the people he swindled. Palmer, dubbed Goldfinger after being acquitted of handling gold from the 1983 Brink's-Mat bullion robbery, was jailed for eight years in May 2001 for conspiracy to defraud. He tricked more than 17,000 victims, many of them pensioners, who handed over millions of pounds to buy shares in holiday apartments in Tenerife, some of which did not exist.