The strange saga of the abduction of Ronald Biggs lurched from hoax to farce yesterday as his kidnappers lost control of their yacht off the coast of Barbados and Biggs himself tried desperately to prove that he really is one of Britain's most wanted men.Scotland Yard last night flew out copies of Biggs's fingerprints so that the Barbados authorities can confirm his identity. If the result is positive, the Director of Public Prosecutions is expected to begin extradition proceedings.The Deputy Commissioner of Police in Barbados, Mr Orville Durant, said that his prisoner wanted to be returned to Brazil, where his seven-year-old son Mikey has been told by friends that his father is in a neighbouring town for a photographic session."He has told us he is not interested in being returned to Britain," said Mr Durant.Two of the alleged kidnappers were also held by the Barbados police, as more details of their plot emerged. The original theory held by the Brazilian police that the abduction was a hoax to publicise Biggs's new book receded.It is now clear that three of the men involved were also concerned in an escapade in 1979 when, according to Biggs, they arrived in Rio, introduced themselves as British ex-soldiers, made friends and tried to persuade him to fly with them to a film location where, Biggs believes, he would have been abducted.All three claim to be former members of the SAS. The three are John Miller, also known as McKillip, Fred Prime, and Norman Boyle. All live in London, where they work as bodyguards.At the time the yacht carrying Biggs arrived in Barbadian waters Mr Miller was entertaining guests at his wedding reception on the island.Mr Miller, aged 36, is due to appear at Marlborough Street Court in London today to face an assault charge arising out of a fight at a West End night club. He has been on bail since December 6.When asked the reason for the kidnap, Mr Miller told an ITV interviewer in Barbados last night: "It was to bring him into the country which would then be sympathetic to Britain's pleas for extradition. There has been no intention to harm him."He denied seeking money from newspapers for the story. "We have been paid already. All I want is to get my guys out of this Barbadian jail and get them home."Biggs was taken from a restaurant in Rio on March 16. An associate of the kidnappers, Mr Gerry Brown, said yesterday: "Biggs was taken against his will, but once on the yacht he cooperated because he became resigned to what was happening."Mace gas was used at the Rio end and he may have been bruised. In the van they zipped him up in a canvas bag with four carrying handles to take to an aircraft waiting outside Rio. There were booze and cigarettes available to him on the boat."It is believed that Mr Biggs was flown from Rio to the northern harbour of Belem at the mouth of the Amazon, from where he was taken by yacht to the Caribbean. But about 15 miles east of Barbados the yacht's generator failed and the crew put out an SOS.In London, former Detective Chief Superintendent Jack Slipper, who arrested Biggs in Brazil in 1974 only to be frustrated by extradition difficulties, spoke up for Biggs: "I am disappointed for him," he said. "I would have liked to have seen him come back to Britain under his own steam."But if he is brought back, I would like to see careful consideration given by the Parole Board over terms of release from prison. Biggs is not a violent man. He was an also-ran in the train robber team, not one of the top men and never in the same division."[Barbados rejected an extradition request from Britain and Biggs was returned to Brazil. He returned to the UK in 2001 and was released from prison in 2009 on compassionate grounds.]