The number of robberies in England and Wales rose by 11% in the third quarter of last year, with violent crime up 4%, figures published today revealed.There were 23,500 robberies in the three months until the end of September and 315,800 incidents of violent crime, Home Office statistics showed.Total recorded crime dropped by 1% to 1,376,200 incidents in the period compared with the same three months in 2004, with the reduction largely due to a 7% fall in the number of burglaries.The home secretary, Charles Clarke, used the publication of the quarterly data to announce a review of the way in which crime figures were compiled and released amid concern they are widely misunderstood. An independent group of opposition party nominees will carry out the review along with leading statisticians and media representatives, Mr Clarke said."I have been concerned for some time that Home Office crime statistics have been questioned and challenged," he added. "This has got to the point that most people seem confused about what is happening to crime in this country. "This is why I have established an independent cross-party group of experts to look at this issue. I have asked the group to feel free to advise me in whatever way they feel appropriate to help us increase public confidence in our measures of crime."He said the rise in recorded robberies in the latest figures was "understandably concerning".The review group will be chaired by Professor Adrian Smith, a statistician, and members will include Dr David Green, the director of the Civitas, Dame Helen Reeves, a former chief executive of Victim Support, the Sunday Times columnist Dr Irwin Stelzer and the retiring chief executive of the Guardian Media Group, Sir Robert Phillis.Violence against the person rose 4% overall, although more serious cases - including homicide, threats to murder and serious woundings - fell by 10%. Offences in a lower category involving crimes such as less serious woundings rose by 10%. The Home Office also said that in the year to the end of September, gun crime rose 1% to 11,110 incidents, compared with 10,950 in the previous 12 months. Firearms data showed the number of serious injuries from gun crimes had risen by 18% to 470, and slight injuries increased 35% to 3,600 in the year. However, the number of gun deaths fell 38% to 50 in the 12 months, compared with 80 in the previous year. Handguns accounted for 4,650 of the firearms offences and the number of imitation firearms rose by 4% to 3,210. Incidents involving "unidentified" firearms also rose 4%, and those involving "other" firearms by 6%. Criminal use of rifles rose 40% but the number of cases was small - 70, up from 50 the previous year. Use of shotguns fell by 12% to 590. The Home Office also released figures from the British Crime Survey for the year to the end of September, which suggested overall crime had fallen 2% and violent crime by 5%. The British Crime Survey is based on interviews about people's experiences of crime.Further Home Office data showed 839 deaths were recorded as homicides in England and Wales in 2004-05 - a fall of 2% year on year. However, shootings accounted for 9.4% of homicides in the year, up from 8.7%. Stabbings were the most common form of homicide, representing 29% of cases. Of the 839, 137 led to a murder conviction and 127 a manslaughter or infanticide conviction, with a further 401 pending. Norman Brennan, the director of the Victims of Crime Trust, said the government should recruit at least 50,000 extra police officers to crack down on crime. "Despite the many headline-grabbing initiatives the government has introduced, there is not one that has made the streets of Britain any safer since they came to power," he said. "Police have lost control of some towns and cities across the UK, and it is not just the public or victims of crime who tell me this, but police officers themselves. "If the government has any chance of reclaiming the streets, we need to recruit at least 50,000 new police officers."