Last week's message to the National Criminal Justice Board did, as John Reid's column suggests, merely remind judges that prison should be reserved for serious, persistent and violent offenders (This won't be the last of it, January 29). This would be especially welcome if it signalled a renewed determination to develop and promote community sentences. His analysis of the factors driving the explosion in prison numbers is at best partial. It ignores the government's ratcheting up of the use of custody by relentless tough talk. It also fails to recognise the use of our jails as a social dustbin, catching thousands with mental-health, drug and alcohol problems who fall through the welfare net.A proliferation of mandatory minimum sentences, introduced by this government, has tied the hands of the judiciary. Their rationale appears to stem from a lack of trust that courts will pass sentences proportionate to the seriousness of the offence. There are two reasons for questioning the relevance of this logic. The Sentencing Guidelines Council, created by the Criminal Justice Act 2003, is now established in its role of constructing a coherent sentencing framework. There is also provision to appeal against sentences believed to be too lenient. A review of constraints on judicial discretion would remove any suggestion that the home secretary is seeking to instruct judges in their sentencing decisions. Geoff Dobson Deputy director, Prison Reform TrustThere is no logic in calling for John Reid's resignation over the present Home Office failings The only beneficiaries of premature ministerial resignations are incompetent government officials who escape criticism because the minister has acted as their scapegoat. Moreover, the officials benefit by having an even more uninformed fresh minister, whom they can manipulate and deceive. It is time that the civil service was made to take on a little more direct responsibility for its actions and failings. Dr Richard Lawson North Somerset Green partyThe resignation of Professor Rod Morgan as Youth Justice Board chairman and his frank comments on the state of youth justice underline the need to replace the present failed juvenile justice system with its over-emphasis on criminalisation and enforcement (Prison furore threatens to engulf Reid, January 27). Professionals working in this field have long been aware that the incarceration of juveniles does not address the causes of their offending and that a welfare-centred solution dealing with their mental health and other needs is most likely to be effective.The YJB's own research (2005) shows that 31% of young offenders had mental health needs, one quarter had a learning disability and there were many other needs in relation to education, drug and alcohol abuse, peer and family relationships. The YJB report concludes: "Many of these needs remain unmet, with few young people having intervention, particularly for mental-health needs."The Michael Sieff Foundation has debated these issues at conferences over the last five years. There is a strong consensus among professionals and policy makers supporting the YJB report's conclusions that early intervention with high-risk children and their families is a more humane and more effective way in which to deal with the present crisis.Given that the government's own research shows clearly the deficits in the youth justice system which have contributed to the current crisis with young offenders, surely the time has come for action on the recommendations for prevention which have been a feature of much government-funded research for decades. There is now an urgent need for implementation of recommendations on prevention of minor offending. Dr Eileen Vizard Chair, young offenders' strategy group, the Michael Sieff FoundationIn the discussion and debate about the latest prison crisis there has been a failure to grasp a fundamental shift in the makeup of the prison population (Hitting the buffers, January 26). At the end of last year for the first time there were more people in custody serving indeterminate sentences than there were serving sentences of less than 12 months. This historic change means far more people will be inside for longer, clogging up the system. And far more people are likely to be recalled to custody for failing to comply with licence conditions.The current crisis is not due to an increase in short sentences (in fact the numbers in custody serving sentences of six months or less are down year on year), but a consequence of a harsher sentencing framework following the introduction of indeterminate sentences for public protection. At the same time the courts, particularly the crown courts, have been handing out longer sentences compared to 10 years ago over a period when the number of people appearing before the courts has remained stable.The government cannot build its way out of this crisis. What is needed is a far less punitive sentencing framework and a rethink in our approach to crime and punishment so prisons are not used to warehouse people with social problems who have been rejected by other agencies. Enver Solomon Centre for Crime and Justice StudiesMore than 150,000 children in England and Wales are separated from a parent every year as a result of imprisonment, with devastating consequences. Families are left to cope with the stigma and hardship of having a loved one in jail.Overcrowding means that prisoners are increasingly likely to be held long distances from home, making visits difficult and expensive. Almost half of all prisoners lose contact with their families while inside. Using alternatives to custody would not only solve the problem of prison overcrowding, but would also reduce this chronic level of family breakdown which, in turn, reinforces the cycle of poverty and crime. Lucy Gampell Director, Action for Prisoners' Families