The long and largely successful battle to persuade shooting interests and landlords to tolerate raptors in the Peak District has suffered a cruel setback.A goshawks' nest has been wrecked deliberately and the birds' eggs smashed, an attack which leaves only one active nest of the breed in the Derwent Valley which has had a small but stable population for 30 years and last year was home to six pairs.Derbyshire police are investigating and together with the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds, they have a good record of monitoring suspected targeters of birds of prey. The RSPB is offering a reward of £1000 for information leading to a conviction, backed by the Peak District national park authority, the oldest in the UK.The attack has also been condemned by the Moorland Association which represents grouse moor owners and has worked hard with the RSPB and national park, as well as the National Trust and Natural England, to rid the area of misleading tales about raptors' effects on grouse numbers. The five organisations launched a Birds of Prey Initiative only last year, with agreed breeding targets for other previously persecuted species, including the merlin, peregrine and short-eared owl.  In action: a goshawk catches a pigeon in far-away Tokyo, where the birds' appeal is just as strongJohn Lomas of the national park authority, who chairs the initiative, says: I've been advised that the police have indicated that the destruction of the nest was not due to natural causes. We strongly condemn any wilful destruction of nests and eggs. We have been making good progress working closely with bird groups, landowners and gamekeepers to secure the right protection for rare species, and the destruction of this nest is a setback.Nevertheless we will continue to work with all those who are co-operating with us. We should not let the bad behaviour of a few individuals stop the improving relations between the different interests. The RSPB says: The Peak District Nestwatch partnerships employs a variety of intelligence and surveillance techniques on vulnerable nests, and has enabled thousands of people to watch peregrines, goshawks and other upland birds in the valley, through guided walks, observation points and a CCTV nestwatch. Direct evidence of human interference is difficult to come by, and finding culprits even harder. But the consistent and high failure rate which led to the establishment of Nestwatch cannot be explained by natural causes. Further, it is no coincidence that the nests which suffer from unexplained failures, mysterious disappearances, and definite persecution are all in, or adjacent to grouse-shooting areas.It is also significant that goshawks and peregrines are faring successfully in the Peak District away from grouse-shooting areas.The group's investigations officer Mark Thomas, adds: Once again we're faced with the destruction of birds of prey in Britain's most visited national park. The sight of goshawk eggs smashed, only days from hatching, lying on the forest floor is a heart-breaking sight and proves that this bird is being systematically wiped out in the north of the Peak District.And Hazel Earnshaw, of Severn Trent Water which owns the moor where the nest was wrecked, is also disgusted: We are sickened that this protected species has once again been subject to persecution, despite extensive efforts to protect it. The Goshawk should form a natural part of the ecosystem here in the Upper Derwent Valley. We are working closely with the RSPB to protect these birds and to identify the guilty parties.Darren Belfield, a sergeant with the Derbyshire Constabulary, says:This is a further instance of senseless destruction and persecution of a protected species. The individuals responsible show no regard for the law or for the conservation of bird of prey species within the Peak District national park.Information can be passed to police on the non-emergency crime line 101, or anonymously through Crimestoppers on 0800 555111.