A "cold and calculating" couple are facing life sentences for murdering the wife's parents and burying their bodies in the back garden, concealing the deaths for 15 years while spending their victims' savings on celebrity memorabilia.Susan Edwards, 56, and her husband Christopher, 57, were found guilty of shooting dead Patricia and William Wycherley at their home in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, in May 1998. The bodies of the Wycherleys, a reclusive couple, were unearthed from the back garden of their home last October, where they lay undiscovered in a shallow grave beneath the kitchen window.At Nottingham crown court, jurors were told Susan Edwards shot dead her parents and left their bodies in a bedroom for a week before enlisting her husband to bury them. The couple showed no emotion as they were told they face life terms when they are sentenced on Monday.For 15 years, Susan Edwards kept up the pretence that her parents were alive, sending Christmas cards to relatives assuring them all was well. In one card, Edwards told a relative her father was enjoying "his second youth", travelling in Ireland. The deceit did not end there. The killers spent £245,705 from the pensions and benefits of their victims, whose home they sold.Far from living the high life, the couple used the money to fund an eccentric taste in movie star memorabilia. The jury was told that Christopher, an accountancy clerk, spent £14,000 on collectibles relating to the actor Gary Cooper. Their hobby left them £166,000 in debt.The pair ran out of money after moving to Lille, in France, in September 2012, apparently spooked by government letters demanding proof that Wycherley was still alive. They had also begun to receive letters from Buckingham Palace congratulating William Wycherley, who was 85 when he was killed in 1998, in anticipation of his 100th birthday.Having run out of money and unable to find work, Christopher called his step-mother and made a surprise confession: his wife Susan had found her father dead at the hands of his wife and, following a confrontation, she had killed her mother. They had then buried the Wycherleys and lived off their benefits, he said.The admission prompted police to dig up the back garden of the Wycherley's old home where they discovered two significantly decomposed bodies wrapped in a muddied duvet.