The right for prisoners jailed for serious sexual and violent crimes to be automatically released after serving two thirds of their sentences is to be scrapped under plans to be announced tomorrow by the home secretary, Jack Straw.The announcement, to be made by the home secretary when he addresses the annual Police Federation conference, will form a cornerstone of Labour's plans for the first big overhaul of the sentencing powers of the criminal courts for a decade. At present a typical serious violent offender sentenced to six years for a crime such as grievous bodily harm can be released after three years, halfway through his sentence, if he behaves himself and has to be let out after four years - two thirds of the sentence. The new tougher sentence will give the parole board the power to keep the violent criminal inside for the full length of his sentence if it believes he remains a danger to the public. The courts will also be able to order that such seri ous violent and sexual criminals will face up to 10 years' probation supervision after they leave prison. It could mean that hundreds of prisoners will have to serve an extra two years behind bars. It would not apply to murderers and others already serving life sentences, nor to the most dangerous offenders who are diagnosed as suffering from severe personality disorders. Separate proposals are to be brought forward covering these groups. The reform for longer-term prisoners marks a significant toughening of the regime for offenders who are dangerous but whose crimes are not so serious as to warrant a life sentence. It comes alongside an expected announcement of a new "custody-plus" programme for short sentence prisoners that will see those given sentences of up to 12 months having to undergo rehabilitation programmes in the community on their release. Ministers believe that the current sentencing framework for longer sentence prisoners is overcomplicated and confusing. Different release conditions apply to sentences under and over four years. At present for the last quarter of each sentence an offender receives no supervision at all in the community. The plans, drawn up by a Home Office civil servant, John Halliday, are to be endorsed by the Labour party. They were due to be published last Monday on the day the general election was announced but were pulled amidst official confusion over the timing of Tony Blair's trip to Buckingham Palace. The failure to publish the review report means that Labour ministers are able to float their plans for tougher sentencing without having to reveal the official estimate of their cost. Paul Cavadino, policy director of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, said there was a case for the date of release to be reviewable depending on the risk to the public. But he added: "There would have to be very tight safeguards around the quality of evidence that the man was still dangerous, and an appeal process for the review decision. Otherwise it could result in injustice."