The Metropolitan police are taking two rape survivors to the supreme court, with the backing of Theresa May, after the women won a human rights case over serious failures in the way police investigated a serial rapist.As home secretary, May intervened on behalf of the police in their attempt to overturn the landmark victory. Her successor, Amber Rudd, is supporting the police case against the women. The pair – known as DSD and NBV – were raped by the serial sex attacker John Worboys, a black cab driver, in 2003 and 2007. When they reported the attacks to police, officers did not believe them.Taxi driver and predator: John Worboys and his trail of sexual assaults As a result of serious failures in the way the Met handled the case, Worboys was able to continue attacking women until he was finally brought to justice in 2009. He is responsible for the rape and sexual assault of more than 100 women, and remains one of the most prolific serial sex attackers of recent times.NBV said every time the case returned to court she was forced to relive her experiences.“I cannot believe that on the one hand the government says it is committed to tackling violence against women, and on the other hand they are strongly backing a case that will remove women’s rights,” she said.The high court ruled in 2014 that the women’s human rights had been breached by the Metropolitan police. It said the police had a duty under the Human Rights Act to investigate serious violence against women and could be held accountable in the courts if they failed to uphold that duty.Since then, the force has been fighting the case, which was brought under article 3 of the act, the right not to suffer inhuman or degrading treatment. The court of appeal upheld the ruling, but on Monday the Met will take its case to the supreme court.The latest appeal was granted after May made submissions as home secretary in support of the police’s application. The Met argues its duties are restricted to putting in place the necessary structure to investigate the crimes, but do not extend to the execution of any particular investigation.DSD, who was one of Worboys’ first victims in 2003, said: “The experience of being disbelieved and failed by the police was as bad, if not worse, than being a victim of Worboys. I brought this case not just for myself but because the police should be held to account when they have failed so badly.”Rape victims have a right to be believed by the police | Joan Smith Martha Spurrier, the director of Liberty, which is backing the women, said the case hinged on a crucial principle that victims of violent sexual crimes had a right to expect their allegations to be heard and investigated. She said serious questions needed to be asked about May’s decision to intervene on the police’s behalf, a decision which Spurrier said exposed her motivations behind the plan to repeal the Human Rights Act.“The Met should have learned lessons and committed to take rape seriously,” she said. “Instead they are using taxpayers’ money to drag these women through yet another court hearing – all in an effort to argue that they shouldn’t be legally required to effectively investigate rape. “ The Independent Police Complaints Commission identified serious mistakes during the Met investigations into Worboys which allowed him to continue preying on women. The failures in the cases of Worboys and another serial rapist, Kirk Reid, led the Met to overhaul the way they investigate serious sexual assaults. 