A forensic science project by a group of first-year university students could help overturn the conviction of a woman who has been in jail for almost 12 years for the murder of her elderly aunt, according to friends, family and MPs.Susan May was found guilty of murdering Hilda Marchbank, 89, in her home in the Lancashire village of Royton in March 1992. The central plank of evidence against May was what the prosecution insisted was her palm print in Mrs Marchbank's blood on the wall of the victim's bedroom. May, who visited her blind aunt three times a day to care for her, has always protested her innocence but has already lost two appeals. However, research by six first-year students at Paisley University found that it could not be conclusively proved that the mark on the wall was blood - it could be any number of substances. Their work, backed by the opinions of several eminent scientists, has been sent to the Criminal Cases Review Commission, which has taken the highly unusual step of reassessing the case after the second appeal was turned down. May's supporters say the forensic anomaly is just one of a series of inconsistencies in the case against her. They believe detectives fixed on her as an easy target, dismissing other suspects, including several local burglars, and failing to fully explore other lines of inquiry such as unidentified clothing fibres found in Mrs Marchbank's hand and a red car seen by two witnesses at her house on the night of the murder. They also say her defence was poorly handled by the family solicitor, who had never dealt with a murder case before and called only two defence witnesses, her daughter and a friend of May's, while the prosecution called more than 50, including many expert witnesses. Yesterday, at a press conference at the Commons, May's son, Adam, some of her closest friends and the MPs Michael Meacher and John McDonnell insisted that her conviction was unsafe and urged Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, to urgently consider a third appeal. Mr McDonnell said it was cruel to keep May, now 48, in jail any longer, and he would write to David Blunkett, the home secretary, asking him to free her before a new appeal hearing, as has been done in a small number of cases.