When I think back to that day five years ago, Thursday 7 July, I remember the disruption – the gridlocked traffic, the sirens, the overloaded mobile phone network. It was all so noisy. Then I remember staring at four men on the cover of every newspaper under headlines such as: "Home-grown suicide bombers" and "British Muslim terrorists".One in particular, Shehzad Tanweer, grabbed my attention; partly because he looked younger, less harsh than the other three and also because he was born just a few streets away from where I grew up in Bradford.As I stared at Tanweer and the others, I cried, knowing that from now on things would all be so different for us, for British Muslims. I was also mourning the past, for that time when there were no extremists or fundamentalists, no Islamism or Islamophobia, no war on terror; for the time when we just got on with our lives.My upbringing was probably no different from that of the thousands of others in Bradford born to Pakistani migrants. I knew I was Muslim long before I knew I was British. The very first words that I would have heard when I was born were the ones uttered by Dad: "I bear witness that there is no God but Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah," the Shahadah, the declaration of faith, whispered three times into my right ear. Then there were the regular visits to the mosque and the madrassa, the month of fasting, the Qur'anic lessons at dawn as well as Mum's frequent announcement: "We are a Muslim." She'd state this whenever she thought there had been too much western intrusion into the house. For example, on a Sunday evening when Songs of Praise came on the TV or when there was an ad for sizzling Danish bacon. Or, a particularly memorable time, when Hanif Kureishi's My Beautiful Laundrette was on and Rita Wolf lifted her top up in front of a room full of uncles. I think it's the only time I've ever heard Mum scream, rather than firmly proclaim, "We are a Muslim! We do not do these things! Switch it off! We are a Muslim!"You may have heard it stated that Islam is much more than a religion, it's a way life. There were plenty of rules to obey and I was more than happy to comply. I developed some sort of Islamic compulsive disorder, reciting my prayers 40 times instead of the required 33 and ensuring that every hair on my head was covered as I read the holy book. Carrying out these rituals was a small price to pay for my reward in the afterlife – eternity in Paradise where I would forever dress in fine silk, feast on the flesh of fowls and be waited on by immortal youths.In my teenage years things changed. I gradually realised I was living two distinct, incompatible lives – one at home that was worship, Ramadan, covering up and obedience, and another at school that was pinky-white flesh, boyfriends, nightclubs and defiance. No matter how hard I tried to resolve this conflict, I just couldn't square the two – Muslim and British – and so I pretty much stopped practising my faith. It didn't matter that the punishment for this neglect would be to burn forever in the flames of Hell. I didn't care; I just wanted to fit in.Not everybody shared my view. In 1989, the year that I left Bradford to go to university, many of the city's Muslims came out on to the streets, firstly to burn Salman Rushdie's book The Satanic Verses and then to support Ayatollah Khomeini's fatwa against the author. That year was the first time that followers of Islam were openly and regularly described as fundamentalists, extremists and terrorists.Now, more than two decades on, we are used to such labels. A recent poll showed that a majority of people in the UK associate Islam with extremism and terrorism. Maybe after the 7/7 bombings and numerous failed plots to blow up aeroplanes, nightclubs, an airport and a shopping centre it's not so surprising. Nobody knows the true level of radicalisation among British Muslims. Millions have been spent through the government's strategies to "pursue, prevent, protect and prepare", with initiatives that range from encouraging dialogue between imams and priests to 24-hour surveillance of terrorist suspects. The counter-terrorism strategy has been widely criticised for focusing solely on Muslims and ignoring the far right, for asking communities to spy on their own, for wrongful arrests and for exacerbating an already negative view of Muslims.It's difficult to know how to solve a problem if you don't know what's causing it. A lack of British identity, poor socio-economic conditions and foreign policy may all come into it. But what we really need is for Islamic religious leaders to openly challenge the distorted view of Islam and the Qur'an that extremists hold. There has been one significant edict against the beliefs and actions of suicide bombers by a respected preacher, Dr Tahir ul-Qadri, but we also need to make sure that young Muslims are taught a faithful account of their religion, as my father taught me.I am by no means an Islamic scholar but I do know that suicide is a cardinal sin, that you must respect other religions, that you must not kill or attack innocent people and that you have an Islamic obligation to the country where you live, a contract as a British citizen, to obey its laws and respect its government. How many times does it say in the Qur'an, "In the name of Allah, most gracious, most merciful"? "For Allah is oft-forgiving"? "Allah is He that careth for all"? My God is kind, loving and compassionate.We Are a Muslim, Please by Zaiba Malik is published by William Heinemann (£12.99).