'There's no faith in the police in our community.' 'A policing vacuum exists.' 'The community demands real justice.' 'Vigilantism is a dirty word, but if the police won't do their job...'The above comments sound like they should have come from the Falls or Shankill Road, or possibly the editorial page of Ireland's Andersonstown News. They are the cheap mantras trotted out in defence of paramilitary 'justice' in Northern Ireland, arguments used to justify the IRA and loyalist beatings, shootings and mutilations.But the comments paraphrase political outbursts from the mouths of British Conservatives, including William Hague, in response to the jailing of the Norfolk farmer and shotgun totting good old boy, Tony Martin. The last of them is actually a direct quote from Thursday's leader in the Daily Telegraph. Indeed, the most striking thing about the reaction to Martin's life sentence for murder is the symmetry between the Tories' cynical exploitation of the issue and the political excuses made for paramilitary terror here. At the beginning of 1999 the IRA and loyalists were engaged in serial beatings and maimings culminating in the UVF's horrific crippling of Andrew Peden. It was none other than the Tories' Northern Ireland Spokesman, Andrew Mackay, who led the charge in the House of Commons against what he claimed was the Labour Government's 'Nelsonian attitude' to the savagery, ignoring what Mackay argued were blatant breaches of the ceasefires. The Tories, alongside David Trimble's Ulster Unionists, accused the Blair administration of allowing deprived loyalist and republican areas to fall under the rule of lynch law. Mackay and the Conservatives also backed local human rights campaigners, fighting to highlight the paramilitary expulsion of hundreds of alleged young criminals from Northern Ireland, many with records as long as that of the young man Martin shot dead. But now it seems the Tories are adopting the same rationale spouted by the likes of Sinn Fein... that in some way the criminal justice system should be predicated on what the community wants rather than what is actually just and fair, ignoring the fact that the justice system takes law out of the hands of a populist lottery and acts as an alternative to communal witch-hunts and vendettas. There is further hypocrisy: for decades successive Tory Secretaries of State resisted calls by civil liberties groups to change the law on how to prosecute soldiers and policemen involved in killing unarmed civilians. Even today a British soldier charged with shooting, say, a teenage joyrider can only be found guilty of murder or declared innocent. He or she cannot be charged with manslaughter, which would rightly put more soldiers behind bars. And yet the Tories now want the law changed, from murder to manslaughter, for shotgun farmers who blow away burglars. The Left, particularly in Britain, though should not get too smug, however. After all, why is it that leftists in the Labour Party and the media howl over the hero worship of an individual vigilante like Martin but have no problem sharing platforms with republicans who excuse, support, in some cases organise the same kind of vigilantism on a grand scale in Ireland? The parallels between the knee-jerk emotions whipped up by the Tories in the Martin affair and the macho populism behind headlines in the Andersonstown News, such as 'IRA back on the beat', should be a warning to leftist sympathisers of republicanism as to who they are really getting into bed with. Not so much latter-day Che Guevara, rather secular Christian Brothers wielding the strap on the unruly ruffians in their community. The Tories and the Belfast baseball gangs certainly make strange bedfellows, but the sub-fascistic logic of vigilantism, whether in Norfolk or North Belfast, shows that they have more in common than you think.