The worst police force in England and Wales is Greater Manchester, according to an Observer survey that reveals a postcode lottery in law enforcement.The survey, which examines detection rates, response times to serious crime, speed of answering 999 calls, complaints from the public and absenteeism, also highlights serious weaknesses in London, Staffordshire and suburban Hertfordshire. The Greater Manchester force covers some of the most crime-ridden inner city areas of northern England, and has struggled with an epidemic of drugs and gun offences. It has been forced to admit that people in some places are so terrified of criminals that it is impossible to persuade witnesses to give evidence. Its riot officers also policed the clashes in Oldham this summer in which Asian youths fought them in running street battles. Greater Manchester has the highest crime rate in the country, with an average of more than 14,000 offences a year for every 100,000 people - compared with fewer than 6,000 in Surrey and Wiltshire. Its clear-up rate is one of the lowest, with only 22 per cent of reported crimes resulting in a caution or conviction. The force is blighted by a high level of absenteeism. Its officers each take an average of two weeks a year off. The one area in which it performs well is its response to 999 calls: nearly 90 per cent of them are answered within a target time of a few seconds. Senior officers there are concerned that they will be one of the first targets for David Blunkett's new standards unit in the Home Office, which is designed to push up police performance. The Home Secretary will publish detailed performance tables this week for each neighbourhood in every constabulary area, as part of his police reforms. These figures will further highlight some underperforming inner city forces. The police in metropolitan areas claim it is unfair to compare their performance with rural and suburban areas. This view is partially borne out by The Observer findings. High-performing forces such as Suffolk and Dyfed-Powys in Wales cover rural areas with relatively low levels of crime. But others such as Durham, Northumbria and Gloucestershire contain large urban areas where crime rates are high. Greater Manchester, however, compares badly even with forces whose areas contain big cities such as the West Midlands.This area, in and around Birmingham, also has nearly 14,000 crimes per 100,000 people, yet the police there clear up nearly a third of the offences. David McCrone, Deputy Chief Constable of Greater Manchester, defended his officers, saying there was no national standard for performance. Comparisons were misleading unless funding levels and geography were taken into account, he said. 'We are a force that ensures that we have a rigorous approach to crime reporting and that can count against us. We are also the worst-funded metropolitan authority,' McCrone said. 'We welcome Blunkett's standards unit because if there is accurate recording and accurate national standards, comparisons will be easier to make.' His force had some success in reducing robberies after officers started patrolling the streets with video cameras and targeted vulnerable communities such as students in Manchester. Yet he was deeply concerned that the levels of fear in some places were so high that law enforcement was impossible. 'In Salford we believe that many people do not come forward because of the threat of intimidation. Getting the support of witnesses can be difficult in those circumstances.' The Metropolitan Police fares badly too. Its clear-up rate is the lowest, at 15 per cent, and it has the worst response times.A spokeswoman said: 'It is a unique area of policing due to the transient population, the number of commuters and its size. The force also takes a lead in national and international inquiries such as terrorism, which makes it a special case.'  The Observer survey reveals a number of blips, such as one in Sussex, where the Chief Constable Paul Whitehouse was forced out by Blunkett earlier this year. This force has the best response times - almost all calls are dealt with swiftly - but its complaints are nearly double those anywhere else, at 643 per 1,000 officers. A force spokesman said it had changed the way it counted complaints since March, and the figure was now greatly reduced.  Police performance Best and worst constabularies based on a combination of detection rates, complaints, sick leave and response times to incidents and 999 calls.  Worst five 1 Greater Manchester  2 Metropolitan Police  3 Staffordshire  4 Hertfordshire  5 Lincolnshire  Best five  1 Suffolk 2 Durham  3 Gloucestershire 4 Dyfed-Powys  5 Northumbria   Sources: Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary Report 2000-2001 and Home Office Statistical Bulletins.