The Star newspaper in Johannesburg carried the story on Tuesday - inside, down page, with a headline crowded into a single column that read: "Mob hacks councillor to death over poor delivery."The story was of a "high-ranking ANC member in the Free State", Ntaio Mokoena, who had been killed by a mob of about 500 people. The story said the mob was angered by "the apparent lack of service delivery in the area". There was no further explanation, although the chairperson of the ANC in the Free State, Ace Magashule, was quoted as saying cryptically that the killing was the work of "anarchist elements within opposition parties".No doubt that will be the end of the story of Mokoena, who had been a municipal councillor for 13 years. Although he will feature - albeit anonymously - in the police crime statistics, when they are released in a year's time.It was on the day that his death was reported that the South African Police Service released the country's annual crime statistics. South African police are not very good at putting "spin" on stories, but they tried their best. They boasted that there had been "a decrease in most categories of crime" and attributed this to the part played by the Police Service (they like one to use the "service" bit, as evidence they are now on the "people's" side.)But for all the clumsy spinning, they cannot get away from one stunning figure in the crime statistics - that 19,202 murders took place over the last year. Even when one knows that about three quarters of those murder victims would have been personally known to those who killed them, it is a staggering figure.So what has gone wrong with South African society? Why has the crime situation in the country not improved?Unfortunately, there are no definitive answers, but perhaps anecdotes give a hint, or two. Like the anecdote of Ntai Mokoena and the "services" for which he died - a death so reminiscent of the apartheid era, when to be a councillor was to be identified with the "system" and its failings.Another anecdote relates to a bizarre crime reported two months ago, in which it was claimed that a man had been kidnapped by a gang dressed in suits and armed with assault rifles, taken to his home, made to strip naked and glued to his exercise bicycle, while his assailants ransacked his house.Struck by the sheer silliness of the story and the currency it got as it was reported, without question, around the world, I decided to keep an eye on the investigation and called the investigating officer, a Sgt Malepo, last week. He said the case was proceeding slowly - the fingerprints still had to come back from the lab, but that usually took three, or four months. And he was still waiting to get permission to get a trace on a cellphone, which had seemingly gone missing in the robbery.It was enough to make Inspector Morse give up and become a secondhand car dealer.