The Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, today uses his new year message to call on his party to "sharpen its message" on crime. He is launching a campaign under the banner "We can cut crime", designed to develop new ideas and showcase Lib Dem successes on law and order.With support for the Lib Dems stagnating and by some measures falling - this month's ICM poll for the Guardian showed the party at 18 points, down three - the move can also be seen as an attempt to refocus efforts on the domestic agenda.Tony Blair has identified the criminal justice system as the public service which leaves people feeling most let down. David Davis, shadow home secretary, has admitted Labour's tabloid-friendly message on terror and crime has made the issue difficult for the Conservatives.The Lib Dems are midway through a consultation on a new policy document on crime in the community, and have struggled to make their voice heard this year. But Sir Menzies says today that the Lib Dems could make inroads by promoting "positive and pragmatic measures" introduced by councils under their control. In Liverpool domestic burglary has been cut by 24% and in Newcastle violent crime is down 12%, he said.He invited party members to tell him of their experiences of crime, and of local attempts to reduce it."I am determined to show that the Liberal Democrats are the only party that can tackle crime both honestly and effectively," he says today. "But we need your help to ensure that this message reaches the public. I am asking you to consider how you think the party can sharpen its message on crime."Nick Clegg, the home affairs spokesman - favourite to be next leader - has been charged with doing some "radical and innovative thinking" on cutting crime. Sir Menzies acknowledged that the year had begun with "some challenges for the Liberal Democrats" - a euphemistic way of referring to the coup which forced Charles Kennedy out and brought him in as leader in March. A series of exposes involving some familiar faces - Mark Oaten, Simon Hughes and Lembit Opik - have hurt the Lib Dems' reputation for seriousness. Sir Menzies, too, has performed badly at prime minister's question time.Nonetheless, he has earned plaudits for establishing control over the party's policy-making machinery. "I am determined to make the very best of our party's opportunities," Sir Menzies says today.