Ann was walking her dogs on Wimbledon common, as she did most days, when her attacker struck. He grabbed her from behind, pushed her to the ground, and pulled out a knife when she tried to fight back.Holding her in a headlock with the knife at her throat, Antoni Imiela, the so-called "M25 rapist" who would eventually be found guilty of raping seven women, made the 52-year-old walk across the common. She tried to get away, only for him to start slashing at her clothes. "I was absolutely frozen with fear. I couldn't fight back at all. I was totally at his mercy."Eventually he raped her and left, telling her not to move for five minutes or he would come back and slit her throat.Ann, then aged 52, nonetheless describes herself as lucky. The police were "incredible" in their kindness and sensitivity, and later that day she was taken to the Haven in Camberwell, one of London's three sexual assault referral centres (Sarcs). Those experiences were crucial in ensuring she stuck with her decision to report the rape."The Haven was just a place of solace for me," she said. "I felt in every way like the filthiest thing that ever walked on the earth, but they treated me like the person I was before."They treated me like a human being who deserved respect, as did the police, and that was so important. If I hadn't got that immediately I would have gone and never told anybody again what had happened to me."Everything at the centre, from the lilac walls to the poster prints of flower-lined avenues by a little-known Belgian artist, has been chosen with the utmost care: using famous artworks would risk reminding women of their visit whenever they saw them again. Even the magazines in the waiting room are screened to make sure they don't contain upsettingly sensational stories."Although they were fantastic at the police station there are lots of things going on there," said Ann, now 58. "The Haven was literally just that. It was a place of peace and calm. The staff were incredibly understanding. They didn't judge me or my circumstances; they just gave me all my options and allowed me to make my own decisions about how I wished to proceed."It was incredibly important that I went through the whole process. They definitely set me on the path to recovery."When a client arrives - normally within an hour of going to the police, even if it is the middle of the night - she meets a crisis nurse who will explain the process and talk to her about what she has been through, before a doctor begins the two- to three-hour forensic examination, working from head to toe to check for injuries and taking up to 20 swabs to be stored as evidence."They made the examination as quick and painless as it possibly could be," Ann said. "They talked to me about things I wouldn't have been able to talk to anybody else about. They also totally understood my fear and trauma. I had been a strong, confident woman, and my friends and family couldn't understand why I hadn't got away. They never ever made me feel like that."Some 800 people a year, 6% of them men, come through the centre attached to King's College hospital. While 80% are brought in by police after reporting an attack, the rest make appointments of their own accord. Crucial forensic evidence can be collected and stored so it can still be used if they later decide to report the crime. Sometimes they are inspired to do so when a nurse recognises similarities between their story and another woman's, which has contributed to the conviction of serial rapists more than once.In Ann's case it was a Haven nurse who realised the attack she described bore many of the hallmarks of the assault on an earlier victim of Imiela who had been through the centre, and alerted police.Jan Welch, the director, said people who come in of their own accord often shy away from reporting rape because they think no one will believe them. "If one can say 'actually there's several more with similar stories' they may feel differently. We're never going to push someone into doing something they don't want to do, but often the fact they're not alone is quite a powerful one."If necessary, clients may also be given emergency contraception, or drugs to prevent sexually transmitted infection. All the doctors are female.Boxes of shower gel and toothpaste are stacked in a cupboard above brand new T-shirts, tracksuit bottoms, shoes and underwear, for those whose own clothes need to be retained as evidence."People are being sent here at an intensely sensitive time and we feel how we look after people is a huge determinant in their subsequent recovery," Welch said. "If something terribly distressing has happened to you and people treat you like rubbish that reinforces it. Dignity and sensitivity is crucial to what we try to achieve."Ann later learned that her experience of reporting rape was not universal."I was very aware of what an awful experience it can be," she said. "If I hadn't had that good experience I would have given up reporting [to] or dealing with the police."· Ann's name has been changed