A man who was in a fatal collision with a child in a road accident is seeking compensation for injuries he suffered after knocking the boy over, it emerged yesterday. Antony Young, 37, from Chipping Sodbury, near Bristol, says the 12-year-old boy was guilty of a violent crime because he deliberately ran into a busy road during a game of chicken.Mr Young is seeking money from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority, the official body that pays money to victims of violent crime. The case would be the first of its kind if successful and could trigger compensation claims from those injured by the acts of people who later died.Mr Young says that Robert Davis and a group of boys had been daring each other to run across the A4174 dual carriageway near Bristol on April 8 this year.Robert had started to run across the carriageway as a van approached, but failed to spot it was being overtaken by the Suzuki Mr Young was riding.Mr Young said: "All I remember is a child running from behind a footbridge onto the dual carriageway and stopping in the outside lane in which I was travelling. I reacted immediately but had no chance of avoiding him, thereby hitting him head on." Robert died from multiple injuries three days later at Bristol children's hospital.The biker, who was riding at less than 50mph in a 70mph zone, suffered six broken ribs, a punctured lung, a bruised heart, a shoulder injury and continuing psychological trauma as a result of the accident.He spent two weeks in hospital, was off work for three months and will need further surgery.At an inquest in August a verdict of accidental death was recorded and the coroner Brian Whitehouse went out of his way to say he was "completely satisfied that no blame whatsoever" could be attributed to Mr Young.A number of witnesses said that there was nothing the motorcyclist could have done to avoid running Robert over after he ran out into the road.Andrew Campbell, solicitor for Mr Young, said: "The key point is to show he was injured as a result of a crime of violence. Violence can be defined as an act that causes injury - it does not need to be deliberate and therefore can be a dangerous or reckless act."Mr Young's mother, Sue Woolston, today insisted her son was not interested in the money, but wanted justice. "Tony was doing nothing wrong. His bike was roadworthy, he had all the correct equipment, he was well under the speed limit."He lost his bike, which cost £5,000, because he only had third party insurance, his helmet which cost £500 and his health."He's absolutely devastated with what's happened and for the family. We don't want to upset them, they've been through enough. It's just about getting justice."