Jessica du-Cille doesn't stop talking. Our interview takes almost three hours. Every question sends her into a spasm of detail. Why she had gone on to the nightclub with a man she didn't know. How the man who offered her the glass of champagne had seemed normal and friendly. Then the strange sensation of looking down at her feet and wondering who they belonged to.Du-Cille was 31 and personal assistant to a company director at a Birmingham cosmetic surgery company when her drink was spiked and she was raped. She was in London for a business party at a nightclub when she was offered a glass of champagne by a man to whom she had been talking earlier, who had given his name as Jason.Jason was friendly and well dressed, and had helped out after another man started harassing her. "I was about to order a drink but Jason stopped me. He said his friends had bought a bottle of champagne, my favourite, and even though I didn't see my glass being filled I took it and drank it. Next thing, we were on the dance floor and I started to feel strange: not really drunk, but as if I was outside myself looking in."I remember having my glass topped up and and dancing around and spilling it. I didn't drink much of the second glass. But from then on, it was really hazy. I felt my brain was five minutes behind my body. It's hard to describe - it's like you've got no power in your limbs yet you are still walking around and functioning."Du-Cille was driven to a hotel by Jason. There was a second man in the car, called Tom. She thinks there were as many as six more men waiting in the room she was taken to, where she says she was raped, orally, anally and vaginally by at least three men while the others watched. "I was aware[that] it hurt but the pain took time to get to my brain. It was like a numb sensation, but then it got worse and worse. At that stage, I just cried out "No", or screamed it out, "No!" As soon as I did that they let me go. I was in a straddling position but they were holding me up - so they let me fall on to the bed. I remember them poking me and saying, 'What's the matter with you?'"Jason gathered her clothes, told her to go into the bathroom and get dressed, then came in and raped her again.In Britain last year, thousands of women and young gay men had their drinks spiked. In the first national survey of its kind, the Guardian and the Channel 4 programme Dispatches interviewed 750 people in 16 cities. One in four women of club and pub-going age that we spoke to said that they had had drinks spiked. The number who went on to be raped is not known. Many had no memory of what happened next, although most were taken home by friends. According to the survey, as many as 30 women a week are victims of drink spiking.We contacted sexually transmitted disease clinics, 38 rape crisis centres and the 52 police forces round the country to investigate the scale of the problem. The frontline rape and medical clinics said that there had been an increase in the numbers of women reporting drug rape and in some clinics, numbers had doubled in the past two years. The police had no statistics.Many women who fear they have been drug-raped won't go to the police but will visit an STD clinic for a checkup. "We are only seeing the tip of the iceberg," says Janine Roderick, manager of the STD clinic at Cardiff Royal Infirmary. Cardiff dealt with 38 drug rapes in 2003, double the number of the previous year. None resulted in a conviction. There are, we discovered, local hotspots - your chances of getting drug-raped in Blackpool are almost double that in London, though the most likely place in Britain to be a victim is in Cardiff. Our investigation also revealed that no single drug is used to knock out victims - it can be anything from sleeping pills to valium.After the rape, Jason told du-Cille to get dressed and insisted on driving her back to her hotel, dropping her directly to the door of the hotel in full view of the doorman. She decided to tell her friends what had happened: one said she should go to the police; a second advised her to tell no one, especially not her boyfriend and forget about it. But the next day du-Cille, worried that she might be pregnant, went to get the morning-after pill, broke down and told the nurse what had happened. The nurse advised her to report it immediately.In the past five years, only 15 men have been convicted of the crime. The biggest problem is that the forensic evidence of the drug can disappear from the body within 12 hours of an assault. By that time, most women have not even recovered enough to report it to the police. Most have no memory of what exactly has happened and drugged women generally don't fight, so there are rarely bruises.Anne Davies, a behavioural and forensic scientist and pioneer in the prosecution of rapists, has looked at 24 cases of convicted drug rapists and concluded that at least half were serial offenders. But unless the men had videoed the assault, or several women accused the same man, the attackers generally got away.Drug rape is a classless crime. Offenders range from persistent criminals and unemployed labourers to professional men. One serial rapist, Timothy Hay, who spiked the drinks of women he met in bars and then offered them a lift and raped them in their own homes, told the court that after his wife left him he "needed someone to hold". Graham and Simon Laskey, became the first convicted serial drug rapists in Britain. They were sentenced in 1999, having drugged their victims over an 18-year period. The brothers met their victims through lonely hearts columns and assaulted them in their caravan in Pontypridd in Wales.The morning after her rape, Jason called Jessica du-Cille on her mobile. "He was asking me, how was I doing, did I remember a call we'd had on the mobile phones?" The next day she got another call from Tom, Jason's colleague - the tone was the same. "The way they were with me made me feel they had done this before," she says. "Jason gave me the impression that he travelled with his job, so I thought he could be doing this all over the country." The next day she went to the police.The Home Office keeps no statisitics on drug rape or drink spiking. Our research found that the most vulnerable age group were the under-25s, accounting for more than 80% of those who said they had had a drink spiked. But less than half of British police forces have early testing kits - where a urine sample can be taken as soon as a woman reports to the police. According to Inspector Dave Gee, of the Derbyshire police force, "There is a feeling among many professionals that much of this is caused by excess alcohol, both by the potential victims and some assailants, and that [spiking] is not as prevalent as some people in the media ... and anecdotal stories might indicate."Roderick disagrees: "The women we've seen have genuinely been raped - you can just tell immediately they walk in the door. I haven't met a single woman who I thought was faking it yet. But I do get the sense there is a vast number of victims who go to absolutely no one."Next month Gee will lead the British police's first major and systematic research project into the prevalence of spiking, on behalf of three police forces.Police arrested two men over the rape of du-Cille. They gave different stories - each blaming the other for raping her. But there was no trace of drugs left in her system by the time she reported the rape, and her description to the police of what she remembered, including straddling her rapists, went against her. Anne Davies says that the police, the crown prosecution service and juries need to be much more aware of the effects of rape drugs."There have been one or two cases where the women's drinks have been spiked in a club, and then they've been caught on CCTV grabbing the offender's crotch. You can see how that wouldn't go down well in court at all, yet that is a known effect of [common rape drug] GHB. It's difficult enough to get a conviction for rape but it's doubly, triply difficult to get a conviction for GHB."Emma Rees was 17 when she was raped by four men in Chester. She was found at 3am by a taxi driver, Andy Coll, running up the street wearing no knickers. "I was stopped at the traffic lights and this girl ran out wearing just a halterneck top and a pair of boots and started scratching on the windows."Rees's last memory was of drinking her usual third pint of cider and blackcurrant about three hours earlier. She had gone to the toilet and left her glass at the bar; from then on, her mind is blank. The next day her jeans were found discarded in a nearby skip.In Chester hospital, she thought she was an Avon Lady selling cosmetics to the nurses. The nurses found the semen of four men inside her body. The police took several men in for questioning but said they would not be pursuing the case. "I think they just thought I was a young girl of 17, and if I went off with these guys it was probably my own fault. They were saying, 'You were really drunk. Do you think there is any point in carrying on with this?' In the end I just said forget it."Her aunt and mother didn't want to forget it, however, and insisted that the urine samples that had been taken at the hospital should be sent off for more tests, for which they paid privately. The tests proved positive for rohypnol, another drug associated with rape, but the police said they were inadmissible as the samples had left police custody.Over the coming months, the Home Office will issue guidelines on how to train bouncers and bar staff how to spot men who may be spiking, or planning to spike, people's drinks. Every police force in the country will also be supplied with kits so that as soon as a woman reports a rape, her urine can be tested.In the meantime, Jessica du-Cille and Emma Rees try to get on with their lives. Both cases were ultimately dropped because of lack of evidence.· Spiked, A Dispatches investigation into drug rape in Britain, made by First Frame TV and GuardianFilms will be screened on Channel 4 on Monday at 8pm.