A 15-year-old girl shot dead in a house in Hackney, east London, on Saturday afternoon has been named as Shereka Fab-Ann Marsh.Three boys, one aged 15, and two aged 16, were being held in a nearby police station after they were arrested on suspicion of murder near the scene of the fatal shooting on Eastway, close to the Olympic Park. The 15-year-old was charged with murder late on Sunday night.Police sources said one line of investigation was that the shooting may have been an accident. Scotland Yard said "enquiries continue to establish the full circumstances of the incident". A post-mortem examination at Poplar mortuary on Sunday revealed Shereka died from a gunshot wound to her neck.Friends gathered close to the terraced house where the incident took place and laid flowers while forensic crime officers continued their investigation behind a cordon. Some friends told reporters that Shereka, a pupil at Urswick School, a Church of England secondary in Hackney, had gone round to the home of one of the arrested boys with a pair of trainers as a present for his 15th birthday. "Shereka only went to drop off his birthday present, and somehow she got shot," one said. "Nobody knows how yet. It's awful."Another friend said: "I don't know why there was a gun there when [he] was celebrating his 15th birthday, but this is Hackney."Ambulances were called shortly before 4pm on Saturday, but Shereka was pronounced dead at the scene. Police confirmed the house was not her home and a firearm had been recovered from it.On Sunday night her headmaster, Richard Brown, said the school was "stunned by the completely unexpected and tragic death" of the year 11 student who on Friday had been helping raise money for Sport Relief. "It is absolutely out of the blue," he said. "You couldn't have a more innocent victim … Shereka was a bright able student and was on track to be really successful in her GCSEs. She was a great role model for other younger students. She would not knowingly be involved with anything that would have contributed to her death."Chainelle Jennings, 16, said her friend was "a nice bubbly girl and she loved to party, loved shopping". She said Shereka enjoyed studying history, was good at sports and planned to study business. She added Shereka was an only child who lived with a "very protective" mother while her father lives in Jamaica.Drew Percival, 16, said teachers from the school were at the nearby Homerton hospital on Saturday night where pupils gathered "trying to calm everyone else".Krista Brown, an ambassador for the national apprenticeship service, whose son Shad Brown knew Shereka and the boys who were being questioned, described it as "a tragic situation for both sides of the coin". "This is a local community," she said. "They're our kids. What people fail to realise is that this is our kids' reality."Shereka had led tours of her school this month for visitors including the Jamaican high commissioner, Aloun Ndombet-Assamba and local Labour councillor, Patrick Vernon. Vernon said she told him she planned to study business management and set up her own business."She was intelligent, articulate and had her whole future ahead of her," he said. "Whether she was killed by accident or deliberately it is a tragic loss of talent. I really feel for the family but also for the pupils and teachers at the school which has turned itself around. This will be an emotional body blow for the school because she was popular and well known."An "RIP Shereka" Facebook page created to host tributes to the schoolgirl referenced suggestions that she was accidentally shot. Loopylou Olliffe wrote: "RIP sweet princess. These evil people need to be stopped. Thinking praying and sending my love to you family in these sad times god bless you all xxx". Elaine Pearson, an NHS nurse, added: "OMG …How do they get these guns?"