No one believed more in the innocence of the brothers accused of killing Damilola Taylor than their mother.She insisted: "My sons are no angels - but they never killed a little boy. "I know my sons. Do you think they could have done something like that and I wouldn't find out? "I know they would have told me. I can tell when they are lying. They keep saying 'Mum, we didn't do it'. I believe them." The 43-year-old mother was the only parent of the four original defendants to sit in court most days. The boys, the youngest of her five children, are part of a large, extended family based in south-east London. She is divorced from their father, who has moved out of London with his new wife and family. He was also in court on several days. "He is still very much part of their lives," said the boys' mother. She went on to defend her sons, who were described by the judge during the trial as having displayed yobbish and loutish behaviour. Even Baroness Mallalieu QC, who defended one of them, said they were "deeply unattractive". Their mother said: "Everyone locally says they can't believe it. My sons have a reputation for being thoughtful boys. "Why would they attack a 10-year-old boy for a pair of trainers and a coat? They had everything they needed. They both had part time jobs helping members of the family with their businesses. Their uncles were always giving them money. "If they were guilty, then I would say 'All right, they deserve all this' - but they're not." The woman said her sons were devoted to each other. "The boys went everywhere together and did everything together," she said. "They have always been close. I know my sons and my sons aren't killers." The strain of the past year has taken its toll, she said, adding: "I spend my time cleaning the flat. I scrub the walls and clean outside. The neighbours see me and tell me not to worry because it will be all right at the end. "I am still cooking for everyone even though it is only me and my daughter at home now." She thought her sons were left to carry the can for others. "Why weren't other boys who were mentioned in the trial charged? The only alibi one had was that he was with his grandmother. "Another boy was in a children's home but everyone knows he kept getting out of there without anyone knowing." The mother agreed that her sons were always getting into trouble at school and with the police. She said: "They hated it at that school. The teachers were always trying to exclude them. "I argued with them. It was the worst thing they could do. They would be outside without supervision, getting into more trouble. I begged them to place them on their own in a room at the school." But her sons settled down in support centres and passed their mock GCSEs this year while on remand, she said, adding: "They did very well." The boys told a prison officer in Feltham young offenders institution that they were arrested because they were "notorious" in Peckham. Their mother agreed, saying: "They were very well known around Peckham. Everyone knew them but they don't believe they did this. "They got into trouble with their friends and they would steal. They had a reputation but they were all mouth. They would never hurt a little boy. "They honestly are thoughtful and polite boys. They helped me around the house with the housework. One would clean the toilet while the other one would vacuum for me. "No one could have pointed to them and said they were from a one-parent family. They were very well behaved at home. "Their trouble is they can never keep still - they are full of energy. They are double trouble." The woman has four grandchildren - one born last year, who was fathered by one of the boys. Their council flat was the centre for comings and goings by family and friends - the third defendant at the trial, 17-year-old Boy C, who was acquitted on the judge's direction in the middle of the proceedings, was living there when he was arrested by police.