A man suspected of having smuggled into the UK an African boy whose torso was later found in the Thames was jailed for four years and six months for people trafficking yesterday.Kingsley Ojo, 35, from Stratford, east London, admitted four charges: bringing two men, whom he provided with false papers, into Britain in November 2002 and February 2003, and using a forged driving licence and passport. Ojo headed a "substantial" network that is thought to have smuggled in hundreds of children and adults to work as prostitutes or domestic slaves. Scotland Yard detectives do not think he killed the boy, named Adam by police, whose headless and limbless torso was recovered from the Thames in September 2001. But they believe he could hold the key to the horrific ritual murder. Officers were initially baffled by the gruesome find. But painstaking forensic analysis of the boy's bones established his diet, which narrowed down his place of origin to the region around Benin city in Nigeria. Ojo, who was arrested with 20 others in a series of immigration-linked raids across London last July, is also from Benin city. He had falsely claimed to be Mousa Kamara, 30, from Sierra Leone. Detective Chief Inspector Will O'Reilly, who heads the investigation, said Ojo was not thought to have murdered Adam, but police wanted to interview him again about his links with a woman arrested in Scotland. Children's clothes found in her Glasgow flat came from the same German shop as the orange shorts on Adam's torso. She also comes from Benin city, and she and Ojo lived at the same address in London for a time. "We believe she is closely involved in the Adam case," Mr O'Reilly said. "Her main associate in this country was Ojo. We also believe he assisted her entry into the country. I firmly believe he can assist us with our inquiries and we will be looking to speak to him as soon as possible." The woman has since been "repatriated" to Nigeria and Mr O'Reilly said he could not comment further on her as a file had been submitted to the Crown Prosecution Service. When officers searched Ojo's flat in London, they found a video of mock-up ritual killings and a rat's skull, thought to be a voodoo talisman. Southwark crown court heard that Ojo came to the UK in 1997, posing as an asylum seeker, and was granted leave to remain, but forbidden to travel abroad. But when he discovered his girlfriend, Barbara Bourne, had lost a newborn son a few years previously, he used the dead boy's birth certificate to obtain a driving licence and passport. He then brought in illegal immigrants on cheap flights from Naples. Police think those smuggled in may have paid up to £20,000 each for a new life in Britain. Judge Neil Stewart said he was satisified that Ojo had an organisational role and had profited from the enterprise, and recommended that he be sent back to Nigeria when he had served his sentence.