Barry George, the man jailed for the murder of BBC presenter Jill Dando, has won the right to a second appeal against his conviction, the Criminal Cases Review Commission announced today.The decision, the CCRC said, was based on new findings calling into question evidence used by the prosecution at George's original Old Bailey trial in 2001 linking him to firearms, "and the significance attached to that evidence". The CCRC chairman, Graham Zellick, said too much emphasis had been placed at the trial on the tiny speck of firearms discharge residue found deep in George's coat pocket. "Whereas considerable weight was placed on it at the trial, the conclusion to which we have come is that it cannot bear that weight, if it can bear any weight at all," Professor Zellick told BBC Radio 4's The World At One. "It is a reappraisal of the view that the experts can take in these circumstances. I think there is now a good deal of common ground that it simply cannot bear the weight, it isn't incriminating, it is of almost no evidential value in the circumstances at all." George, 47, who has always insisted he is innocent, was jailed for life in July 2001. A first appeal, based mainly on the credibility of witness evidence linking him to the scene of the crime, was dismissed a year later. George's solicitor, Jeremy Moore, said both he and his client were "very pleased" by today's decision. "Mr George has now spent seven extremely difficult years in custody for a conviction which we believe that, in the fullness of time, will be seen as one of the gravest miscarriages of justice of recent years," he said. The CCRC's investigation of the case "could not have been more thorough or intensive", Professor Zellick said as he announced the report this morning, explaining that the commission had considered thousands of pages of evidence and interviewed more than 100 people. "It is not for the commission to decide whether or not the conviction should be quashed," he said. "Our role is limited to assessing whether there is a real possibility that the court of appeal may quash the conviction in the light of new evidence or argument and we have concluded that that is so." Lawyers for the CCRC have questioned the police at length about claims the residue came not from the weapon that killed Ms Dando, but from contamination by firearms officers called to the scene when George was arrested. The police have insisted no firearms officers were present.The presenter was fatally shot on the doorstep of her home in Fulham, west London, in 1999. Police discovered that George, who lived nearby, had a conviction for rape and an interest in guns. During the trial he was portrayed as a fantasist who had stalked and photographed hundreds of women. His defence team, led by Michael Mansfield QC, argued that Ms Dando could have been killed by a Serbian hitman in revenge for the bombing by Nato of a TV centre during the conflict in the Balkans. Presenter Nick Ross, who co-hosted BBC's Crimewatch with Ms Dando, said today he did not take the theories about a hitman seriously."The defence was based on the fact that there was some sort of conspiracy," he said. "But no professional assassin would choose somewhere like Gowan Avenue, which is a straight road, and where there's no way of getting out without being seen. "I can't tell you definitely that Barry George did it, but if it was not Barry George it was someone very like him." After George was found guilty of murder at the Old Bailey on a majority 10-1 verdict there was immediate criticism that the prosecution case was one of the thinnest in a major murder trial. Ms Dando's brother, Nigel, said today that he noted "with interest" the decision but would make no further comment at the moment.