According to the Home Office, Sarah's law – which lets any parent find out if any adult in contact with their child has a record of violent or sexual crimes – has "already protected more than 60 children from abuse during its pilot". This fact was widely reported this week. As the Sun announced: "More than 60 sickening offences were halted by Sarah's law during its trial."The number of sickening offences prevented by an intervention is a difficult thing to calculate: nobody explained where the number came from, so for my own interest I called the Home Office. "It's not that difficult to work out is it?" This is the Home Office telling me I'm stupid. "It's the number of disclosures issued, how many were of sex offenders, and how many children would those offenders have had contact with." Fair enough. This means that telling a parent that someone in contact with their child had a history of abuse equated to preventing an act of abuse? Yes, they said: "Protecting that child means ensuring that the offender did not have a way of having contact with that child. Therefore that child is being protected."Fair enough. This assumes that any such contact is itself abusive, or would definitely result in abuse. That might be correct; I don't know.Then I asked where the number 60 had come from. I was sent to an excellent report assessing the programme, written by a team of academics. Neither the number 60 nor the word "sixty" appeared in that document.So I contacted the lead author, Prof Hazel Kemshall, who said: "You are correct that reference to 60 children is not made in the report. As I understand it the Home Office have drawn on police data sources to quote this figure and therefore I cannot assist you further. As you will see from the report we were careful to state the limits of the methodology."I contacted the Home Office again. "The figure is over 60 and it comes from the number of disclosures made where there was a conviction of a sexual offence with a minor, or violence against a minor. In total, 21 disclosures were made specifically about registered sex offenders [RSO]. A further 11 disclosures were made, for example relating to convictions for violent offending. These people had access to over 60 children."I'm not sure this is self-evident. The academics who wrote the report couldn't work out where 60 came from, and at least two pieces have appeared trying to unpick it, and arrived at different answers from me and the Home Office. Conrad Quilty-Harper, in the Telegraph, and a website called FullFact both tried – very reasonably – adding various categories of numbers from the academic report, including a figure on social worker activity in 43 extra cases, which seemed to make up the numbers.I'm not saying 60 is wrong. While what it represents was probably overstated, the number itself isn't absurd. But it's odd that just finding out where it came from involved so much mucking about, and it seems even odder to ignore the robust figures in an academic report that you've commissioned (not cheap), and instead build your press activity around one opaque figure constructed ever so slightly on the back of an envelope.