A former special constable has admitted three charges of attempting to murder staff at the care home where she worked.Melissa Swift put “a bleach-type oxidant” into the water and juice of vulnerable elderly residents at the Goldfield Court home in West Bromwich last year, also poisoning her colleagues.At Birmingham crown court on Friday, the 23-year-old further admitted making threats to kill, after posting anonymous “blood-smeared letters” to two victims including her older sister Lulla Swift.She admitted attempting to kill co-workers Amy Garbett, Billy McCann and Sharon Moss, and sending a threatening letter to another colleague, Charlotte Dixon. In all, 32 people – seven care staff and 25 residents – were poisoned.One woman suffered stroke-like symptoms and others suffered nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea. All have since made a full recovery.West Midlands police described Swift’s crimes as “particularly heinous” and said it was a mystery as to why Swift had poisoned the drinks. She had worked at the home, made up of independent-living flats for elderly residents, for several years.Police began investigating after receiving a tipoff about a change in Swift’s behaviour. DCI Michaela Kerr, who led the investigation, said: “She told someone things like ‘I feel like I’m going to hurt somebody,’ and ‘I’m going to hurt people.’”Kerr said Swift “deceived her colleagues and hatched a plan to cause ill to those she worked with as a result of some malice, for which we have never truly discovered the cause. She not only thought out a way of poisoning her workmates but also followed the plan through and administered bleach to their drinks, leaving them in the usual staff fridge where she knew they would go.“The plan was dangerous, reckless and hugely alarming,” Kerr added. “There is nothing to have stopped anyone from consuming the drinks she tampered with and, given the nature of her profession and workplace as a care provider, she went against everything her dedicated colleagues worked for. Thankfully, no one was seriously injured as a result of what she did, but the story could so easily have been different.”It emerged that Swift, of West Bromwich, had been a special constable with West Midlands police until the month prior to her arrest in August last year, when she resigned. There was no previous history of offending, according to detectives.Swift was remanded back into custody until 17 April when she will be sentenced.A spokesman for Housing & Care 21, which runs Goldfield Court, said: “Melissa Swift’s actions in August were shocking and alarming. Our priority has been to offer support to our staff and residents. It is a testament to the staff and residents that disruption was kept to a minimum. “We’re very proud of the way our staff responded and prioritised the service to people living there. The residents themselves have also been very helpful and co-operative throughout the police investigation. We would like to thank West Midlands police and the many other agencies for their sensitivity and professionalism throughout this incident.” 