A prosecution based on a huge undercover police operation in which £15 million was laundered then returned to suspected drug dealers was thrown out of court today.In a lengthy ruling that allowed 10 defendants to walk free and left the taxpayer to foot an enormous legal bill, a judge branded the "honeypot" operation as nothing less than "state-created crime". He said it was "massively illegal", and, in the case of two suspects, amounted to entrapment. The operation, which lasted years, was aimed at alleged drug barons using Gibraltar and other routes to launder seven-figure profits.A company, set up with Scotland Yard approval, came complete with bogus financial records filed by accountants who were granted immunity from prosecution. The result was a "very tempting package" designed to trap as many "targets" as possible. Once "cleaned up", the suspect sums were handed back to bolster the operation's carefully-crafted fiction and allow police to continue gathering evidence. "Laundering money in such large quantities back to suspect criminals will raise question marks in any right-thinking member of the public," said the judge. Matters were not helped by "distrust" between British and Gibraltarian police that allowed the money to disappear without trace. The court heard that lawyer Christopher Finch and businessman Plinio Bossino were regarded as principal players in the alleged criminality. They were eventually lured to Britain and arrested. Eight others were also detained.But after a 418-day marathon of court hearings and legal arguments spanning five years, the case finally foundered at London's Southwark crown court today.Following the ruling by Judge George Bathurst-Norman, in which the case against three of the defendants was halted, Alan Rawley QC, prosecuting, said it was only "correct" that the proceedings against the remainder should be "permanently stayed". Mr Rawley said the judge had raised "certain points of law" which were of considerable importance. "We will approach the attorney general and ask him to refer them to the court of appeal criminal division," he said. Depending on the attorney general's decision, the crown might return to court, ask for the "stays" to be lifted, and formally offer no evidence to all the charges so that not guilty verdicts for all defendants could be entered on the court records. Howard Godfrey QC, defending Mr Finch, told the judge: "This has been the most exhausting piece of litigation I think any of us have been through in terms of its length - since 1999." This prompted the judge to reply: "I would like to say parting is such a sweet sorrow, but I can't pretend in this case that it is." Taking into account the extensive costs for court time, massive defence costs, and the money police spent during the lengthy investigation, the taxpayer is expected to be left with a bill estimated at £25 million. Possible civil actions by defendants seeking compensation will add to the financial fall-out. During his three-day judgment, the judge strongly condemned both the investigation and the way in which the case was subsequently handled. But he made clear any criticisms levelled at the police were based on their "incompetence" - there was no question whatsoever of "bad faith".