People living in Britain's poorest neighbourhoods are six times more likely to be murdered than those from the most affluent areas, according to a report out today. Its authors claim that the polarisation of a generation caused by mass unemployment in the recession-hit early 1980s could be to blame.The Crime and Society Foundation, a justice and social policy thinktank based at King's College London, examined the 13,140 murders - an average of almost two a day - committed in England, Scotland and Wales from January 1981 to December 2000.The study, titled Criminal Obsessions, found that while the murder rate has more than doubled from 350 to more than 800 since 1967, the increase was not spread evenly across social classes. "The rise in murder in Britain has been concentrated almost exclusively in men of working age living in the poorest parts of the country," said Danny Dorling of Sheffield University, who wrote the chapter on the correlation between murder and poverty."The poorer the place you live, the more likely you are to be murdered. The rate of murder represents the tip of an iceberg of violence. It can be seen as a marker of social harm. For murder rates to rise in particular places, and for a particular group of people living there, life in general has to be made more difficult to live, people have to be made to feel more worthless. The rate has risen most for those demographic groups and in those areas, for whom and where people have become relatively poorer over time."Contrary to popular belief, gun crime is not the main factor behind the surge in murder rates in deprived areas. Although the use of firearms has risen in the poorest wards in the past 20 years, 29% of murder victims were shot in rich areas as opposed to 11% in the poorest. Those in poorer areas are more likely to be stabbed with a knife or broken glass, and in 4% of cases, die in a fight, usually by being kicked to death.The vast majority murders were not carefully planned, but were sudden acts of violence, premeditated for only minutes or seconds, and the perpetrators were often drunk, Prof Dorling said.There was also a marked rise in the number of suicides of young men from these socioeconomic groups, while more than a million had moved abroad in the 1990s. "These are the same young men who saw many of their counterparts, brought up in better circumstances and in different parts of Britain, gain good work, or university education, or both, and become richer than any similarly sized cohort of such young ages in British history," said Prof Dorling.Sixteen-year-olds from poverty-stricken areas would have found it much harder to get a job in 1981 than any set of school-leavers in the previous 40 years, he said. "The lives of men born since 1964 have polarised, and the polarisation, inequality, curtailed opportunities and hopelessness have bred fear, violence and murder."