The former MP Eric Joyce has been fined for an “unjustified and unprovoked” assault on two teenagers in a shop.The 54-year-old attacked the boys, aged 14 and 15, at News and Food Express in Chalk Farm, north London, in October.The district judge John Zani, sitting at Westminster magistrates court, handed down a 10-week jail term suspended for two years and a £1,080 fine, and ordered Joyce to attend a rehabilitation programme.Joyce, a former Labour MP for Falkirk, said at the trial this month that he had been performing a citizen’s arrest, but the judge found him guilty of two counts of common assault. Jonathan Swain, prosecuting, told the court it was an “unjustified and unprovoked assault on both boys”.After the hearing, Joyce said: “I think that is a fair outcome.” Asked whether he felt remorse for his actions, he added: “Of course. In the end it was a 14-year-old boy and that is a shame and a cause of considerable remorse and I have to both pay the price and make sure I don’t do it again.” The judge told Joyce in his sentencing remarks: “In my view, the evidence against you was very overwhelming and the defence that you put forward was lacking in any credibility, particularly when one looks at the CCTV evidence, and your interpretation of what that demonstrated, I’m afraid, vastly differed from the way I saw the events portrayed.”He went on: “The events in October 2014 did you no credit. Your reaction to what you perceived was happening in the shop was entirely unacceptable.” Zani told Joyce that he must ensure he avoids violence in the future. “I’m just able in all the circumstances here to suspended the term of imprisonment,” he said. “I consider that you have dealt with your alcohol problem and you need to focus on dealing with situations where there is a requirement for you not to resort to violence.” Joyce was convicted in 2012 of four common assaults in a House of Commons bar – which led to his resignation from the Labour party – and last year of breaching the peace at Edinburgh airport after being “threatening and abusive”. In mitigation, Neil Corre said: “This is an intelligent, healthy man who has served his country in the armed services and in parliament.” He went on: “He understands that his previous offending was because he had a drink problem and it’s in my submission an indication of the strength of his character that he himself has overcome that drink problem through determination and willpower. That is why in my submission he is a positive candidate for a suspended sentence.”  