The number of race hate crimes received by prosecutors from the police jumped 12% to nearly 4,200 last year, according to figures yesterday from the Crown Prosecution Service.Eighteen cases of religiously aggravated crimes were also prosecuted in England and Wales, the first time figures have been published on this type of hate crime. Islam was the "actual or perceived" religion of the victim in 10 out of the 18 cases. In six of these, the accused was also Muslim. The increase in race cases received by the CPS in 2002-03 followed a 20% jump the previous year. Of the 4,192 received, prosecutions were brought against 3,116 defendants, 442 more than in 2001-02. Seven out of 10 of the charges resulted in guilty pleas and 15% in convictions after a trial. The conviction rate of 85% was up on the previous year. The CPS pledged to tackle race crimes more vigorously after a report by its independent inspectorate in May 2002 found that prosecutors were wrongly reducing charges in more than one in four racist incidents. Charges of racially aggravated crimes were regularly downgraded to remove the race element, while in other cases prosecutors accepted defendants' guilty pleas to the crime minus the racial aggravation. Last year's figures showed that 86% of race crimes were identified as racist incidents by police, compared with 89% the previous year. The remainder were identified by the CPS when the file was received. The director of public prosecutions, Ken Macdonald, said: "I am reassured that the conviction rate remains at a high 85% for this type of hate crime. We are working closely with police to build strong cases and continue to achieve a large number of guilty pleas at court." He added: "Religiously aggravated crime is still a relatively new piece of legislation but with the work we are doing to communicate our policies I hope that members of all faith communities will have the confidence to report crimes directed against their beliefs. "The CPS takes all these offences particularly seriously because they are motivated by discrimination and hate and represent an assault upon our diverse society." Of the 18 religiously motivated cases finalised between December 2001 - when this type of offence was created - and the end of March last year, there were eight convictions and seven ended with acquittals, defendants bound over to keep the peace, or discontinuances by the CPS. Two more cases resulted in convictions for the basic crime without the religiously aggravated element, and there was one case in which the judge ruled that there was insufficient evidence.