Two people remain in intensive care after a series of hit-and-run incidents in busy Cardiff streets left a woman dead and 13 people injured.The incident involved a white van over 30 minutes of chaos at school pick-up time on Friday. Police have revealed that people were also assaulted outside the van, possibly with a weapon. A 31-year-old man is being questioned after being arrested on suspicion of murder.The woman who was killed has not yet been formally identified but police said relatives were being supported by a family liaison officer. She was identified locally as 32-year-old Karina Menzies and is believed to have been walking with her children when she was hit outside Ely fire station.The youngest to be injured was a 23-month-old toddler while the oldest was a 49-year-old woman. There were five different crash sites spread over an area of about 3 miles.The ambulance service said some of the injuries were "serious". Nine casualties, five of them children, were still in hospital, with two adults in critical but stable conditions.Detectives said they were "keeping an open mind" about the circumstances.They appealed for witnesses who saw a black Renault Clio being driven on the wrong side of Western Avenue, near a Tesco Extra store, at around 3.25pm, which may be linked to the man they are questioning.The incident is believed to have begun at about 3.30pm near the City of Cardiff Stadium in Leckwith, west of the city centre. Witnesses claimed there was a violent row and a white van drove off at speed, hitting a woman as it left the scene. It is believed the van headed further west towards the suburb of Ely.Firefighters on duty at Ely station dashed out to help the woman and others who had been hit. The station forecourt was sealed off and forensic experts worked at the scene on Friday night. Candles and flowers continue to be left at the site.Community leaders said a service for the victims and families will be held at the Church of the Resurrection in Ely at 5pm on Sunday.It will be led by the Reverend Jan Gould, who said on Saturday: "People here are numb at the moment and in shock – it's like a state of carnage. Fortunately, despite its problems, Ely is a very close-knit community and people here are wonderful at pulling together and supporting each other."Police have released details of the 14 victims:Crossways, Ely: Boy, aged nine, arm and leg injuries; girl, eight, head injury; woman, 29, walking woundedReptile Centre, Ely: Woman, 22, leg injuries; girl, two, facial injuries; man, 24, minor injuriesEly fire station: Woman, named locally as Karina Menzies, 32, killed; girl, 23 months, observations only; girl, eight, head injuryGrand avenue shops: Man, 32, multiple injuries; girl, 10, arm injury; girl, 12, back injuryLeckwith retail park: Woman, 27, head injury; woman, 49, multiple injuries