Police today arrested 16 people in a series of dawn raids aimed at smashing a student visa immigration scam thought to have helped around 1,000 people enter the UK illegally.About 120 officers from Scotland Yard's specialist crime directorate targeted 12 addresses in London and Essex, including two suspected bogus colleges in Tooting, in south-west London.The gang behind the immigration scam is suspected of earning more than £1m by providing people with fraudulently obtained student visas. Officers suspect members used counterfeit immigration stamps and false documents or registered people at bogus colleges. The network behind the suspected racket has been under investigation for more than a year, though police suspect it may have been operating for several years.The suspects - 10 men and six women - were detained on suspicion of immigration offences and money laundering. They were taken to various London police stations for questioning by detectives.Police said foreigners would pay the gang several hundred pounds each to get a student visa for between six months and three years and pose as students in order to enter Britain. Once in the UK, they would be free to disappear or apply to extend their study visas. Some 300,000 overseas students come to study in the UK every year, contributing an estimated £3bn a year to the economy. The vast majority are genuine, the Home Office says. However, there is concern that private adult colleges may be fraudulently providing nonexistent language courses.This morning's operation was the largest yet carried out by the Metropolitan police as part of Operation Maxim, an initiative to tackle organised immigration crime. The swoops were timed to coincide with action by South African police this morning in Durban, where officers were thought to have visited at least one address. Among those arrested in the London raids this morning was a Zimbabwean-born naturalised British citizen in his 40s. The raids, led by police officers, were supported by the immigration service and the Passport Agency. Addresses were targeted in Westcliffe-on-Sea, in Essex; Upper Norwood and Anerley, in south-east London; Mitcham, in south-west London; and Canning Town, in east London. Detective Chief Inspector Steven Kupis, who led the operation, said: "This was the largest pre-planned operation that Maxim has done since it started in April last year. The finance we believe has been generated from this... It would be hard to think of anything that has been bigger to my recent knowledge," he said. Det Ch Insp Kupis said those who had been brought to the UK under the scam were mainly black and white South Africans. He said most had come in search of a better life but that their status in this country was now under threat. "They stand to be returned to their country of origin if they are here illegally," he said. "It is a matter for the immigration service, and we are progressing with that. "These people are victims. They have given up money, sometimes unknowingly, to these people purporting to be agents. They are losing not only their money but their right to be in this country." Tarique Ghaffur, head of the Met's specialist crime directorate, said the investigation "highlights the Met police's determination to counter organised immigration crime in London". Earlier this year the home secretary, David Blunkett, said perhaps only a few thousand of the overseas students were bogus, but that that was enough to undermine "trust and confidence". New measures announced by Mr Blunkett to combat the problem include an immediate crackdown on addresses masquerading as educational establishments and, by the end of this year, an accreditation and monitoring scheme for all colleges. Student visas will not be granted to colleges that are not on the list. The measures also include a requirement to tell the Home Office when students do not turn up for courses.