Police today admitted making mistakes during their race-fixing investigation into the champion jockey Kieren Fallon which saw his high-profile trial collapse.The Irishman and five other men, including fellow riders Darren Williams and Fergal Lynch, were acquitted last December. Two further trials involving five other defendants were also dismissed, prompting City of London police to review their procedures.Today, the internal review made seven recommendations. Among them were that "when dealing with regulatory bodies (such as the British Horseracing Authority for example) as part of an investigation, the force should ensure there is a formal framework in place to govern the relationship".Commander Patrick Rice, who led the review, said: "We have been thorough in our efforts to identify exactly what we could have done better - or differently. "We got a lot of things right, including the overall direction and control of the investigation. However, we have also identified some areas where we need to tighten up our processes and modify our ways of working." The race-fixing allegations involving Fallon, who has won the Epsom Derby three times, arose after a race at Lingfield Park in March 2004. His mount, Ballinger Ridge, was passed by the favourite, Rye, in the final stages, despite looking certain to win. In September 2004, he was one of three jockeys arrested as part of a police investigation into the alleged fixing of more than 80 races over two years. In 2006, he was charged with conspiring to defraud the internet betting firm Betfair by attempting to manipulate horses' performances to ensure they lost races.Later that year, Fallon also lost an appeal against a decision to revoke his jockey licence, and was banned from riding in the UK until his trial was over.At his trial at the Old Bailey in 2007, Fallon was accused of being involved in a £2.2m betting fraud that included deliberately finishing second in a race at Lingfield. But after eight weeks, the judge, Mr Justice Forbes, said there was no case to answer. The trial cost taxpayers £950,000.The City of London police commissioner, Mike Bowron, said: " Most of the learning has already been put into practice. We will now be working to implement the remainder without delay."