Police investigating the murder of a British woman who was found buried in a pit in Jamaica are hunting a 30-year-old local man. Barbara Scott-Jones, 61, a retired nurse from Leeds, was discovered with a fractured skull close to the house she owned in the north-west of the island.Investigators said they are looking for Omar Reid, who worked as a caretaker at the Scott-Jones house. Constable Craig Sterling, a police spokesman in the parish of St James, said he could not confirm reports that Mr Reid and Ms Scott-Jones were in a relationship. 'He is actually her caretaker. We're not sure how close a relationship they had,' said Sterling. 'But he is being sought at the moment.'Relatives of Ms Scott-Jones in Britain are thought to have contacted the Jamaican authorities after being unable to contact her since Monday. They also became alarmed after receiving a text message from her mobile phone, which they believed was not sent by her.Police officers who went to her home in Bullock Heights in the town of Somerton found that the lights, radio and television were all switched on.Investigators believe she may have been killed up to 11 days ago. An examination carried out at the scene by a pathologist found that she had sustained several wounds to the head, including a fractured skull and broken teeth and nose.Reports in the Jamaican press said that police and firemen dug up the lightly clothed body of Ms Scott-Jones after receiving intelligence that it had been buried in the pit at the back of the property.Ms Scott-Jones, who was scheduled to leave Jamaica on 1 April, is thought to have first visited the country more than a decade ago. She is believed to have been on the way to visit a friend in the resort of Montego Bay on the day she was reported missing.Charlie Jones, the former husband of Ms Scott-Jones, and their daughter, Salina Jones Yildiz, flew to Jamaica after they were informed that she had gone missing. Earlier in the week, her daughter told Jamaican reporters that she and other family members in the UK had become concerned after they were unable to reach their mother by phone.'We have been calling her repeatedly and have only been successful in getting her voicemail,' said the daughter. 'This is not like her to not return calls or not to keep in touch.' She added that the family became more concerned during the week after receiving a 'strange' text message from her mother's mobile phone. 'It was clearly not from my mother because it was signed "B Scott" and mummy would never write that. She would have written "mummy".'A Foreign Office spokesman said: 'We have been informed of the reported death of a British national and local consular officials have already been in touch with family members who are on the island.'The death is the first report of a tourist being killed in Jamaica this year. More than 1,400 people were killed in Jamaica in 2007, including at least 19 police officers. More than 175,000 Britons visited Jamaica in 2006, up 7 per cent on 2005, and latest figures show a rise of 14 per cent last year.