The latest scandal to hit the sport of kings, which saw the champion jockey Kieron Fallon among 16 people arrested on Wednesday on suspicion of race fixing, had commentators rushing to the defence of the poor punters.The Daily Mirror led the charge, calling on the authorities to "turf out the crooks". "Most of the billions poured into betting come from ordinary people who enjoy a flutter," it thundered in an editorial. "That means that racing has to be straight. If it isn't ... [those] who bet at some time during the year are being swindled." The  Independent  agreed: "Punters ... have the right to expect that they are watching fair races. Unless corruption is seen to be driven out ... the horseracing industry might wake up one day to discover that all bets are off." But writing in the same newspaper, James Lawton said such concerns misunderstood the mentality of the average race-goer. "Racing is above the calculation and moral values of the real world and real life," he judged. "It is the home of the chancer and the trickster and the outright fraudster." As evidence, Lawton quoted a leading bookmaker, who said: "Some people don't understand that there is no one more resilient than the punter ... [Wednesday's] news is just going to make him shrug his shoulders and say, 'I told you so.' But he will say that on the way to the bookies." Matthew Engel, in the  Financial Times, blamed the rise of online exchanges - which allow punters to bet that a horse will lose - for racing's latest woes. "It is damnably hard to know for certain which horse will win ... but a trainer, jockey or groom can often be very sure indeed that a horse will lose," he noted. JA McGrath, writing in the Daily Telegraph's Hotspur column, argued that the exchanges were actually helping to clean up racing. "Because every punter has to register full identity details to open an account with exchanges, and sign a declaration allowing the authorities access to that account, it is more likely that we are today seeing the results of this extra source of intelligence," he explained. The Sun's editorial, however, was not so optimistic. "In racing these days, isn't the sweetest smell in the stables?"