The call comes in the middle of the lunchtime rush. Tony Ditmo, owner of Mama Mia's Pizza at 5154 Peach Street, takes an order for two large sausage and pepperoni, but the caller is incoherent and muffled. Ditmo can't make out the delivery address. He hands the call over to his unassuming employee Brian Wells, 46, who scribbles down the details and heads south on Peach to where the city gives way to strip malls. Reliable, quiet Brian doesn't come back.Two hours later he is live on TV. He's just robbed a bank and is now sitting on the baking tarmac forecourt of Eyeglass World with his hands cuffed behind his back. A bomb is locked around his neck. He's saying something to the state troopers surrounding him, but they are stony faced and just stare back at him down the sights of their pistols.He has large, surprised-looking glasses. He's not making a scene, he's not freaking out, he is just trying to get something through to the cops. A small man, just 5ft 3in, bald on top, blue jeans, he's the sort of guy who'd be ignored in a crowd of two. Now he's on TV, the focus of electrifying attention, and he's still diffident. After almost 30 minutes sitting in the sun, under their guns, he's gently insistent. He asks the police: 'Why is it nobody's trying to come get this thing off me? I don't have a lot of time.' He pulls a pin out and starts a timer. 'It's gonna go off. I'm not lying. Did you call my boss?'He looks worried and starts to shuffle along the ground. Bang! The bomb goes off. There's an embarrassed silence. Bits of the neck bomb tinkle and clatter to the ground. Brian flops backwards. He slowly expires while police and medics hop about in the background, baffled.The only other known use of 'collarbombs' has been by Colombian drug lords in their turf wars. But here in Erie, a small town in Pennsylvania, the technology came with a further, bizarre twist. Police found 12 pages of complex instructions addressed to the 'Bomb Hostage' on how to conduct himself while he robbed the bank in his little Geo Metro hatchback. This carefully handwritten text, complete with helpful illustrations, revealed that Brian had been sent on the ultimate treasure hunt, in which the prize was his life. He was instructed to rob the bank then follow a spider's-web trail around the local highway system, collecting passwords, keys and clues which would disarm the bomb. If he failed to complete the tasks in the time allowed, Brian was told in the note, 'You will die.' 'Act now, think later or you will die,' it insisted. 'There is only one way you can survive and that is to co-operate completely.'Erie, Pennsylvania isn't, well, eerie ... not at first. Set on the southern shores of the lake that gave the city its name, pleasure boats and yachts carve white froth through the harbour protected by Presque Isle. The city centre has fought off urban decay, which could have followed the collapse of the region's heavy industries, by partying. Thursday night is cheap-beer night - 70 cents a pint; almost every Friday in summer the roads are closed to traffic for festivals of custom cars, jazz, street art...But for the four years since Brian's death on 28 August 2003, Erie has been in the grip of 'Collarbomber Fear'. Beneath the back-slapping good ol' boy bonhomie that is so much a part of the city's culture lies a nagging horror that the Collarbomber might strike again. However, last week a Pennsylvania Grand Jury ruled that Brian Wells had been an accomplice in the ghoulish crime plotted by a cast of characters whose proper place is in a gothic novel - not small-town America.It's a 10-minute drive from Mama Mia's to 8631 Peach Street, where Brian delivered his last pizzas. The site, 100 yards down a dirt track, turned out to be an unmanned TV satellite broadcast station. He took the order at 1.47pm and would have arrived around 2pm. About 20 minutes later, wearing an outsized white Guess T-shirt, he walked into the PNC Bank, two miles back up Peach Street at Summit Town Center.It was a hot afternoon, remembers John Sekel, 76, who'd been glad of the air conditioning as he stood in the queue. 'I'm waiting in line and this man walks into the bank with a cane in his hand,' Sekel recalls. 'He had this thing under his sweatshirt that looked like a shoe box. He walks over to the teller and gives her a white envelope. He talked very low and I couldn't hear what he was saying. She looked sort of startled. She then stepped away from where she was standing and yelled out: "Audrey!"' It was the bank's code word for robbery. Another teller whispered to a customer to get out. A small group started to leave the bank. 'We walked right past him,' Sekel says. 'He didn't bat an eye!'Sekel says he was amazed that Brian let them walk out, not least because in addition to the bomb around his neck he was carrying a shotgun disguised as a walking stick. 'He was sort of scared, he looked calm, but he didn't look one way or another, he didn't act cocky.'Sekel goes on: 'This lady who had a cell phone called 911 and said: "There's a robbery in progress at the PNC Bank on Peach Street." And that was it. About two or three minutes later he strolled out of the bank, holding his cane up a little bit. He had some kind of a bag or something in his right hand; he walked to his car and drove off.'Brian's behaviour, his odd calm, always troubled the police, who never ruled him out as a conspirator in his own death. From the first day of their investigation it was blindingly obvious that there was no chance he'd have pulled off the robbery.Brian's instructions had been: 'Go to the bank quietly; enter with the weapon you were given; avoid panicking the tellers or customers.' A gentle man with a deep aversion to violence and guns, he'd ignored orders to 'use the weapon if anyone does not co-operate or attempts to leave the bank'. He'd been told to demand $250,000 but had only been given $8,000, which he put in a plastic bag. As instructed, he'd left his driving licence and a sealed note for the police with the teller. Then he'd continued to the first stage in the treasure hunt, to McDonald's around the corner, where he'd found his next set of instructions. The notes were hidden under a rock by the Drive-Thru sign. The second page of the notes warned Brian that he'd be watched by 'sentries' and that 'If anyone follows or interferes, we may leave and allow timer to detonate or call cell phone detonator.'According to the Grand Jury indictment, at least two conspirators were watching Brian when he left McDonald's and was stopped by state troopers. They handcuffed him while he told them about the bomb.The troopers backed off, leaving him sitting on the ground, shouting for help. It took them 32 minutes to call the bomb squad. They arrived at 3.20pm - two minutes too late.The notes Brian collected from McDonald's included a map and a guide to a seven-stage treasure hunt which I obtained in Erie from the FBI. I set off in an identical blue Geo Metro to the one Brian drove at exactly the same time of day to see if he could have made it (I set the timer, which has since been identified as a household cooking clock, to its maximum, about 50 minutes). I would not have made it. Brian, who knew the area, might have done. But this is to ignore the most fundamental and revealing part of the plot. It assumes that no one would have raised the alarm and that Brian would have been able to tootle around in his little car, the bomb ticking away, the $250,000 on the seat beside him, on a complicated delivery run totally unhindered by the police. Add to this the well-established fact that bank tellers don't have access to large amounts of cash, precisely to prevent old-fashioned bank robberies. To demand $250,000 was either incompetent or downright juvenile. Worse still, the note Brian left with the police gave them instructions which would lead them directly to him. Brian never had a chance.That, according to US district attorney Mary Beth Buchanan, is the whole point. Brian was part of the plot and was given a bomb-proof alibi in the form of an explosive around his neck. 'This was a ruse - the intent was to make it appear that he had to follow a series of instructions in order to successfully rob the bank, deliver the money and deactivate the bomb. Part of the conspiracy was that the collarbomb was a functional destructive device which ensured that Brian would hand over the money and that if the plot went wrong he would not survive to be a witness against the other conspirators.'But those who knew Brian find it inconceivable that he'd have been part of any crime. His landlady and neighbour Linda Payne says he lived an apparently blameless existence in the guest cottage in her garden in a quiet suburb of Erie, where her father once had an apple plantation. One of Erie's ordinary people, he lived alone with three cats. 'He liked to help people. He used to get up, get his breakfast in McDonald's or somewhere, and a newspaper, come home and hang out until it was time to go to work. He was very shy. He took the hubcaps off his car because they were too shiny,' she said. 'He was a perfect tenant.'For many years Brian lived with his younger brother John on their family smallholding just outside Erie. When John moved to start up a business in Arizona, Brian moved to town.'I know Brian wasn't a participant. That's not the way he was,' says John Wells, who looks so much like his brother they could have been twins. 'And even if he was going to be doing something like this he wouldn't put a live bomb on himself. He wouldn't lock it with four different locking devices with no way of getting it off.'As armed bank robbery and terrorism are federal offences, FBI investigators quickly took over the case. Their first instinct was to trawl through the high schools, believing this sort of plot had all the hallmarks of a video fantasy - a sort of egghead's real-life Grand Theft Auto. But as the weeks went by, their search seemed to lead nowhere.In Erie, FBI agents look like they do in the movies. They wear dark suits, pressed shirts and heavy brogues. They're experts in white-collar crime; some have had counter-terrorism training. But this is Erie, where the streets are named after the orchards that once grew here, where the Democratic Party has held sway for generations. The spectacularly unsuccessful Pirates baseball team remains deeply loved. Erie is part of a mature America, not ordinarily associated with the darker shadows of the Deep South: this isn't Deliverance country - it's laid-back, boozy, happy, liberal North America.So it didn't occur to the FBI to search the white clapboard house at the corner where Brian delivered his last pizzas at 8631 Peach Street. If they had gone into 8645 they would have found a workshop with a large freezer, and in the freezer a dead man. The corpse was only recovered because, on 21 September 2003, William A Rothstein, 60, called the local police and asked them to come around to his house. He told them he was storing a murder victim as a favour for a friend.Detective Frank Kwitowski of the city police interviewed Rothstein: 'He explained to me that when it came right down to the moments before they were actually going to dispose of the dead body he couldn't go through with it so he decided to notify the authorities.' The man in the freezer was James Roden, 45. He'd been killed on 13 August, almost six weeks earlier, by his girlfriend Marjorie Diehl-Armstrong, 53. Diehl-Armstrong had been Rothstein's fiancee, twice, and he'd known her for 35 years. She'd killed Roden with a shotgun blast to the chest while he slept in the bedroom of her house. She'd then called Rothstein and paid him $2,000 to clean up the mess and get rid of the body. He'd measured and purchased a freezer of the appropriate size, wrapped the corpse in plastic bags and stored the body. It was when Diehl-Armstrong suggested he pulp Roden's remains in an ice grinder that he balked and contacted the police.When police searched Roden's home and workshop they found power tools, welders and piles of old machinery. He was a hoarder. A towering man of 6ft 6in with a full beard. He only ever wore dungarees, the chest pouches stuffed with pens and notebooks. A multilingual engineer, he was a high-school supply teacher in a wide range of subjects, including 'shop' - practical mechanics. His brother John said he once 'read an instruction manual and corrected the work of trained engineers when he attended a course on fixing washing machines'. Courtly and old school in his manner, Roden was something of a pedant. When he was interviewed under caution, he politely corrected the spelling of Kwitowski.But there was no direct evidence to link Rothstein to Brian's killing. He volunteered for a lie-detector test when questioned about the collarbomb plot, which he passed. The focus of the local police was on putting Diehl-Armstrong behind bars. Brian's death could wait.Diehl-Armstrong had form. She was a bete noir for the local district attorney, Brad Faulk, who'd been at school with her. She'd killed before. In 1984, she admitted shooting her then boyfriend Robert Thomas, but was acquitted in a ground-breaking case in which she argued she was the victim of abuse. Her first husband hung himself, her second died from head injuries after falling over at home.Diehl-Armstrong is a serial litigator and an aggressive letter writer who rarely misses the opportunity to sue. She'd even sued her own father. According to Faulk, she considers herself more intelligent than the authorities who have penned her. On her arrest, Faulk said: 'She told the state trooper she wasn't real concerned because in her opinion I wasn't real bright and she probably wouldn't be convicted.''Everything is a challenge to Marjorie,' added Faulk. 'She is one of those folks that thinks she's smarter and slicker and brighter than everybody else, and that at the end of the day she believes she'll win or she'll prevail on anything that she does - it's the way she's been for 40 years.'Rothstein admitted that he'd destroyed Diehl-Armstrong's shotgun, and that he'd testify against her in return for immunity. He took the police to her home, where clothing and fast-food cartons fought for space with dog faeces. He showed them where he'd found Roden. The mess was such that the police wore toxic-hazard suits during their search.In the face of such damning evidence, Diehl-Armstrong, who has been diagnosed as bi-polar, pleaded guilty to murder while suffering a mental illness and was sentenced to 20 years in 2004. But both Rothstein and Diehl-Armstrong resolutely maintained they had nothing whatsoever to do with the death of Brian Wells.The FBI's criminal profilers believed that the collarbomb plot was the work of more than one person and had been orchestrated by a 'mastermind'. The 'blueprint of his personality', built up by the FBI's behavioural analysis unit in Qantico, Virginia, was based on analysis of the bomb, which was made partly from scrap metal. The BAU said that the Collarbomber is a 'pack rat' - a hoarder. 'Collarbomber is comfortable around a wide variety of power tools and [work] shop machines. He has access to workshops where he could work alone and takes pride in building a variety of things, and has a penchant for dual-purpose engineering that is overengineered and deceptive in its design and purpose. For example, both a collar and a bomb, both a cane and a shotgun.'The behaviour seen in this crime was choreographed. Collarbomber watched from the sidelines, the crime carried out according to a written script. He has written other letters over his lifetime with similar themes of power, control, ultimatums, limited options, wanting revenge and dire consequences if his demands are not met as a result of real or perceived injustice.'The FBI's profile of the Collarbomber as an intelligent pack rat, a skilled electrician expert in 'shop' with a superiority complex and a violent past, appears to be a perfect fit to the composite characters of Rothstein and Diehl-Armstrong. He had the skills, she had the violence, resentment and arrogance to think she could pull off a 'perfect crime'. But the only link with Brian appeared to be coincidental - that Rothstein's house was next to the TV broadcast station where Brian made his last pizza delivery.To add to the increasingly strange cast of characters, police discovered that Rothstein had a tenant, Floyd Jay Stockton, who just happened to be on the run for a rape charge from Washington State. He, too, was a skilled mechanic. (Stockton has since been jailed in Washington for the rape of a retarded adult.)With this gathering storm of circumstantial evidence, the FBI was still unable to pin any evidence linking Rothstein and Diehl-Armstrong to Brian Wells. Then in July 2004 their efforts were dealt a further blow. Rothstein, who might have been the key to the whole affair, died of leukaemia. His lawyer, Gene Placidi, insists he denied any connection with the crime, even on his deathbed. The police also found a note in his home saying that if anything should happen to him, he wasn't involved with the Collarbomber.But earlier this year, a 27-year-old unnamed prostitute said she knew Brian. She told the Grand Jury that she had turned tricks with Brian, who also occasionally drove her around town, at the home of Kenneth E Barnes, 53, who is currently in prison for drug dealing. She had left the last message on Brian's answering machine and has proved to be one of the breakthrough links between Brian and Diehl-Armstrong.Barnes, who supplied the 27-year-old prostitute with drugs, it turns out, used to go fishing with Marjorie Diehl-Armstrong.But the biggest breakthrough has come from another phone call - the call that ordered the sausage and pepperoni pizzas and which sent Brian to his death. It was traced to the Shell garage payphone at 8228 Peach Street, about half a mile towards town from Rothstein's home. Lorraine Blodgett was the manager of the convenience store at the garage. She recalls that Rothstein came in often.'He'd come in to buy newspapers and cookies. He'd sit outside in his car and have brunch, read the paper,' she told me - and he used to make calls from the payphone.The Shell station sits in the weird netherworld that encircles so many American cities. Erie's Victorian downtown is swiftly gentrifying and its clapboard houses bursting into primary colours as young couples settle in. But a couple of miles down Peach Street the generic strip malls, with their disorientating anywhere-in-America chain stores and acres of tarmac parking in every direction, enforce a loneliness amid the commerce and concrete. This, it has recently been discovered, is where Erie's most sinister group of misfits gathered.Marjorie Diehl-Armstrong has admitted, the FBI recently told the Erie Times-News, that she was at the Shell station in her red Jeep and bought $10 worth of petrol on the day Brian died. She added that Rothstein and her fishing buddy Barnes were with her, too - and that Rothstein used the payphone before Brian was killed. The prosecution has alleged that Rothstein placed the order for pizza.Stockton, Rothstein's rapist lodger, also placed himself there on the day Brian died - at around 2.30pm. According to police records: 'Stockton advised through conversation that he had been at the Shell station on 28 August 2003 and made a comment about it being odd about what was going on and his just happening to be at the Shell station then,' (when Brian was already deep into the 'treasure hunt').The district attorney alleges that Diehl-Armstrong had killed her boyfriend to stop him exposing their plot. That she, Rothstein, Wells, Barnes and others 'known and unknown' had met at Rothstein's house the day before the robbery. The DA also claims that Diehl-Armstrong is the mastermind, allegedly ordering Barnes to get hold of plans to build a pipe bomb, and supplying Rothstein with two egg timers for the collarbomb.On the day of the robbery, the DA alleged, Diehl-Armstrong and Barnes had intended to intercept Brian as soon as he robbed the bank and take the money from him. But they had allegedly fled when he'd been stopped by cops - leaving Brian to die. The duo had also been seen driving the wrong way down the hard shoulder of an interstate highway close to one of the stages on the 'treasure hunt'. Rothstein, the Grand Jury says, dumped more than 1,000lb of junk in a local landfill site in order to hide evidence of their role in the plot.Diehl-Armstrong's lawyer, Thomas Patton, said she will plead not guilty at her arraignment: 'Mrs Diehl-Armstrong denies the allegations made in the indictment.' And last week Barnes pleaded not guilty at an arraignment hearing. 'I had no part in this,' he said. Asked who plotted the scheme that led to Wells's death, Barnes said: 'I have no clue.'As for why unassuming little Brian Wells got himself tangled up in such a complex and obviously batty high-risk plot, district attorney Mary Beth Buchanan has no answers.'We do not know the extent to which the others planned on him dying that day. But we do know, unfortunately, that Brian participated in a limited role in planning and carrying out this robbery. Sadly, the plans of these other individuals were much more sinister than Brian's.'