Three children found dead close to the body of their father in a disused quarry had been stabbed, police have confirmed.Detectives believe 35-year-old Ceri Fuller killed his children, Sam, 12, Rebecca, eight, and Charlotte, seven, before taking his own life. A postmortem has yet to be carried out on Fuller but officers are working on the theory that he threw himself from the top of the quarry in Shropshire after stabbing the youngsters.The search for the family was launched after they went missing last week.Fuller's Land Rover was spotted on Monday morning at a beauty spot called Poles Coppice, Pontesbury Hill, near Shrewsbury. The bodies were found in the quarry by police shortly afterwards.Detective Chief Inspector Neil Jamieson, the officer leading the investigation, said on Wednesday that a Home Office pathologist had concluded postmortems on the children. He said: "The examinations established that Sam and his sisters, Rebecca and Charlotte, all died from stab injuries."Jamieson said police and forensic officers had almost finished work at the quarry. A knife has already been recovered and is being examined.Officers are continuing inquiries both in Shropshire and Gloucestershire to establish the family's movements since leaving their home in the Forest of Dean in a red Land Rover Freelander either last Wednesday evening or early on Thursday morning.Jamieson said: "We know they were in the Leominster area at around midday on Thursday and then in Newtown around 3pm. From there, they went on to Welshpool area and were there just after 3.30pm."We are still trawling routes for CCTV opportunities to establish further information, especially about their movement towards Shrewsbury and the Pontesbury area."The children's mother, Ruth Fuller, has released a short statement through Gloucestershire police in which she said: "I don't have the words to describe how I feel at the moment. All I would ask is that I be left alone to grieve for my family."David Fuller, Ceri Fuller's father and grandfather to the children, released a statement on behalf of his and his daughter-in-law's families through police.It said: "The families are devastated by this tragedy. Ceri was a gentle, sensitive and intelligent man but also a very private one. He loved his children dearly and they were such a focal point of his life."His relationship with each one of them was one of gentleness, involvement and attentive nurturing. Sam, Rebecca and Charlie were such charming individuals, brought up in an environment of love."We cannot begin to imagine what was going through the mind of this gentle man to drive him to such tragic actions. We would ask all to respect our privacy at this time while we try to come to terms with this terrible loss."