It should have been the night Vicky Hamilton took another step towards adulthood and independence. It would be her first bus ride on her own; a small but significant adventure for the 15-year-old. She hugged her sister Sharon Brown tightly at the bus stop in the new town of Livingston, near Edinburgh, on a snowy, chilly evening on February 10 1991. The sisters had spent the weekend together shopping and socialising.Vicky was "really nervous" about the journey, Brown recalled. She kept checking she had the correct change. She checked the route with her sister for a final time, and then, with a wave, jumped on to a bus to the nearby town of Bathgate, the first of two buses back to her mother's house 15 miles away in Redding, near Falkirk. "Vicky didn't know where she was going," her older sister told the trial of Peter Tobin at the high court in Dundee four weeks ago. "She asked me to repeat and repeat and repeat where she would get off the bus and get on the next bus."The teenager never arrived home. She was last seen in Bathgate town centre, apparently lost; she approached several people as she tried to find the right bus stop some 200 yards away for the last leg home. She was seen eating chips on a bench. A woman recalled befriending her and offering to share a taxi home.In November last year, her dismembered body was dug out of a 6ft-deep pit by police in a back garden in Margate, in Kent. Her remains had been wrapped in plastic and concealed by a carefully poured concrete cap, then covered with earth.The house on Irvine Drive was once lived in by Peter Tobin, 62, an itinerant handyman and serial sex offender who was found guilty by a jury today of Vicky's abduction, rape and murder.Tobin had moved there in March 1991 from 11 Robertson Avenue, in Bathgate, five weeks after Vicky had gone missing. His neighbours in Kent believed he had dug a sandpit for his young son.Runaway theoryTobin's name never figured in the original inquiry into Vicky's disappearance. The police treated her as a probable runaway; an unhappy girl whose parents, Michael and Jeanette, had divorced. Several months earlier, she had feared she might be pregnant. The police counselled her over an unfounded rape allegation. During Tobin's trial there were claims – unsubstantiated – that she had tried to run away before, and had smoked cannabis. The trial heard lurid suggestions about fetishistic photographs and a video of Vicky taken by one possible suspect, Hugh Gunn, a heroin addict with a long history of mental illness. In 2001, Gunn claimed to have murdered her, alleging that "white knights templar" had helped sacrifice her in a barn. His rambling claims were easily discounted by police. Their missing person theory seemed to be strengthened by the early discovery on February 21 1991 of Vicky's purse in Edinburgh, under a Portacabin in St Andrews Square, near the city's main bus station.It was a false lead, allegedly planted by Tobin, which led detectives to spend two fruitless months searching for her in London. Over the following decade, with the case kept alive by her family and townspeople in Bathgate, police logged 7,631 names in the file. They took 3,965 statements and filed nearly 500 documents and 380 pieces of potential evidence.In the spring of 2006, Lothian and Borders police reopened the file again, setting up a "cold case review" called Operation Mahogany. The review officer, Bert Swanson, was meticulous, studying every statement and every possible lead. Swanson soon decided Vicky had been murdered. "Based on the fact there was absolutely no proof of life at all, it was my interpretation, from all the information we had, that Vicky wasn't a runaway," he said last week. The force decided to offer up Vicky's story for the Unsolved true crime series on STV, hoping it might produce a new lead. A breakthrough did come in October 2006, but from detectives with Strathclyde police. On October 1 that year, Tobin was arrested for the rape and murder of a Polish student named Angelika Kluk, whose body had been discovered hidden under the floor of St Patrick's church overlooking the M8 motorway in Anderston, Glasgow. Investigators built up a detailed picture of Tobin's life. They discovered he had been living in Bathgate when Vicky went missing. It emerged he had a history of violent sexual attacks on young women, and as a youngster had been convicted for thefts and dishonesty.In 1994, he was sentenced to 14 years for raping and sodomising two teenage girls in Portsmouth whom he had sedated with his anti-depression drug amitriptyline, as well as alcohol. There were untested allegations of another sexual attack in the Glasgow area several years later.With Tobin facing trial for Kluk's murder, Lothian and Borders police had to keep their interest secret to prevent prejudicing the case. They quietly drew up a forensic strategy and submitted Vicky's purse for DNA testing. On April 30 last year, four days before Tobin was convicted of killing Kluk, very strong DNA traces were detected on the purse. They did not belong to Vicky, nor were there any hits on the national DNA database. But on June 1 2007, the DNA was matched to Tobin's son. It was a crucial breakthrough, said Keith Anderson, the chief investigating officer for Operation Mahogany. "That was the thing that really gave us the impetus." Knife in the atticTobin had separated from his son's mother by the time of Vicky's disappearance. The boy, who was three years old in 1991, arrived in Bathgate three days after Vicky went missing to stay with his father for a short holiday. The DNA evidence from Vicky's purse suggested the boy had bitten it after being given it to play with by his father.Two days after discovering the DNA link, the police took control of 11 Robertson Avenue and stripped the building. In its attic, behind a chaotic jumble of old belongings, which included random possessions of Tobin's that had survived there for 16 years, the search uncovered a knife. It had fallen – or been hidden – between an end joist next to a supporting wall, in a gap roughly 6cm wide and 20cm deep. It was DNA-tested and on June 15 came the startling discovery: a tiny scrap of tissue that tested as being Vicky Hamilton's was found on the blade.The discovery of Vicky's remains in Tobin's old back garden 500 miles away in Margate, on November 14 last year, sealed the case. Four clear fingerprints from Tobin were recovered from one black wrapping; DNA samples from her body partially matched Tobin; forensic pathologists detected evidence of bruising on her arms and neck, and found traces of Tobin's favoured sedative, amitriptyline, in her liver. Frank Mulholland QC, the prosecutor, and Scotland's solicitor general, said this evidence was "damning". But it was also circumstantial. Tobin's defence lawyer, Donald Findlay QC, said there was "not a single solitary scrap of scientific evidence" to prove the central allegation: that Tobin had abducted, raped and murdered Vicky in Bathgate.The police believe Tobin met Vicky by chance while she tried to find her way home that evening in Bathgate, said Anderson. "We know Vicky Hamilton approached eight people, four of them men, so she was obviously very insecure," he explained. "I honestly think that Vicky was pretty lonely and insecure wee girl during that journey."Detective Chief Superintendent Malcolm Graham, the head of CID at Lothian and Borders, concluded: "It has been 17 long and difficult years for Vicky's family and our thoughts are with them. Their strength and patience has been remarkable. We hope a guilty verdict will help bring them some comfort."