A financial adviser who stole and swindled £10m to bankroll his unsuccessful gambling habit was today sentenced to 12 years in jail.Graham Price, of Llansamlet , near Swansea, was running a counter service for the Halifax in nearby Gowerton and a private investment firm when he syphoned off £7m from the bank and £3m from private clients.The theft was unravelled when an unannounced auditor opened the safe in Price's office to discover three empty boxes and a signed IOU reading "borrowed £7m from the Halifax". More than 50 of his victims sat in silence today as Price was jailed at Swansea crown court after details of the misery he had caused were revealed over two days. Dozens of investors were duped into handing over their savings to Price, 58, by the prospect of investments offering huge returns with the safety of bank accounts. Jennifer Ellis, 51, of Penclawdd, Gower, believed her money had been invested in ground rents and maintenance contracts for luxury apartments from Cardiff to Canary Wharf."I didn't hand over all my money in one go it was a gradual thing," she said. "But he would say, if you put £5,000 in this I will double it in six months, and he did. So you thought, this is good." Price had a stake in 11 horses and was a regular in the paddocks at Cheltenham and Chepstow. Yesterday the court heard that Price had spent £1.7m buying advice from racing tipsters during his four-year spree.His passion for the horses was not matched by his skill for gambling. He lost a lot of money and then tried to gamble his way out of the problems.Neither were any of the horses he owned shares in particularly successful.Price had admitted 43 separate offences of theft and deception. He also asked for 263 similar offences to be taken into account.Judge John Diehl QC, passing sentence, said: "Any words of mine are almost bound to be inadequate to reflect the extent and effect of your dishonesty and deceit. It is not just a matter of looking at the figures, but also looking at the number of individuals and the circumstances in which you did it and the consequences to them."In my view, these were breaches of trust of the gravest order towards the 84 individual investors and the Halifax bank, for whom you acted as an agent. The clients who lost money to Price are intending to mount a legal challenge to the Halifax, which froze their accounts and appeared to remove funds from them.A spokesman for the bank said that cash apparently paid into the accounts as "interest" from the claimed investments had simply never existed."There is no doubt in our minds that these transfers were bogus. No money was deposited, these were simple entries to the accounts with no money to support them," the spokesman said."We fully appreciate that there were people who were entirely innocent who were put in unfortunate circumstances by what happened, and we are sorry, but we had to act."