  Illustration byGillian BleaseDavid Chaytor received an 18-month prison sentence for fiddling his expenses and the sentence was said to be a punishment for a serious breach of public trust. It can be argued that such a sentence was overly punitive, on the basis that Chaytor had been shamed by the criminal proceedings and further offending was unlikely. Now we have Jordan Blackshaw and Perry Sutcliffe-Keenan receiving four years for an incitement offence from which no harm was caused (Judges get tougher: pair who incited riots on Facebook receive four-year jail terms, 17 August).We have had a series of kneejerk reactions by the prime minister and the home secretary, attempting to chase what they consider the populist view on the rioters. Now we have a kneejerk response by the judiciary that can only add to the sense of dislocation and injustice experienced by many involved in the riots, as they see one rule for MPs and another for them. The real problem here is the seeming impossibility of using our justice system positively as reconciliatory and reparative.Jon SpencerSenior lecturer in criminal justice, University of Manchester• Four years in prison for inciting a riot on Facebook? I presume the police are also going to prosecute those who set up Facebook pages inciting people to "Shoot the London rioters"; "Bring in the army and kill the rioters"; "Castrate all UK rioters" and "Use real bullets on little shits cos their parents didn't use rubbers".William MerrinSwansea• The government's bid to evict rioters from their council houses, while well intentioned, is misguided (Report, 13 August). Firstly, any new powers introduced to change the law – which states tenants can only be evicted if they damage property in their own "locality" – cannot be applied retrospectively. So while it may appear that this is about getting tough on last week's troublemakers, it will not affect a single one of them.Secondly, the government is forgetting the issue of proportionality, which the courts must examine before an eviction order is handed down. There cannot be a mandatory ground for eviction, given recent supreme court case law, which councils can slap on wayward tenants. For the government to suggest otherwise is misleading and risks putting the courts on a collision course with public expectation for mass evictions.Jonathan Hulley Partner, Clarke Willmott LLP• I am surprised that David Cameron and Theresa May have not yet suggested the workhouse. This would solve the problem of convicted rioters being evicted, because once incarcerated they will have a roof over their heads. Another advantage is that the sexes are segregated, thus preventing the breeding of yet more fatherless families. Also, inmates have no need of benefits, as food and useful occupation are provided, eg gruel and picking hemp (not the kind you can smoke). Finally, the treadmill, already popular in gyms, provides an excellent form of exercise.Professor Elizabeth WilsonLondon• The Lib Dem response to the riots (Lib Dem MPs describe Tory reaction as 'bonkers', 17 August) is a welcome corrective to the hysterical reaction of David Cameron and Theresa May. But it is not long since Cameron himself advocated a more liberal approach to justice, in averring that Andy Coulson deserved a "second chance". Surely there cannot be one law for well-heeled folk like Coulson and another for those caught up in street riots?Robin WendtChester• Presumably my comments on the sentencing of rioters, and further action against those who destroy people's lives and property, were not what the Guardian was looking for when it phoned Liberal Democrat MPs. Wednesday's report seemed to reflect the agenda which your newspaper had set. For the record, I said that those who rioted are arseholes and that when it comes to sentencing them I am probably to the right of many Conservatives. However, I said that subsequent punitive financial action could well prove to be counterproductive to society. I also said that making children homeless was not acceptable either.The notion that Liberal Democrats are somehow sympathetic to rioters is not one which I subscribe to.Bob Russell MPLib Dem, Colchester• Under attack by Earl Winterton in the House of Commons (1910-11) for recommending commuting sentences on seven young offenders in Pentonville, Winston Churchill, then Liberal home secretary, replied "I wanted to draw the attention of the country … to the evil by which 7,000 lads of the poorer classes are sent to gaol every year for offences for which, if the noble lord had committed them at college, he would not have been subjected to the slightest degree of inconvenience" (quoted in Roy Jenkins, Churchill, p182). The language, social context and numbers may have altered, but the proposition still holds true.George SmithOxford• I agree almost entirely with Professor Osborne (Letters 16 August), but surely it does not contradict any legal principle to consider the wider context when passing sentences. Riot and mass criminality threaten the very fabric of our society and necessitate swift and sure response, perhaps even draconian, with the emphasis on deterrence. Taking part in an act with others in looting and arson is a very serious crime regardless of the individual's personal haul, and does not compare with the discrete act of an individual stealing a packet of chewing gum or bottle of water.Michael RobinsonNorth Creake, Norfolk