A father who was stabbed to death in front of his three-year old daughter as he travelled to see his newborn son was today named by police as John Nii Kacsu Abbey.The 26-year-old boxer from Croydon, south London, was known to his friends as King, a Metropolitan police spokesman said.A 22-year-old man is still being questioned by police over the killing in west Croydon on Thursday evening.Abbey was stabbed as he travelled with his daughter to the nearby Mayday hospital where his wife had given birth hours earlier.His little girl was left watching in horror as paramedics desperately tried to save his life on the pavement. Detectives said Abbey became involved in an argument with a second man, believed to be a former colleague. A post-mortem examination revealed the victim died of a single stab wound to the heart.The 22-year-old was arrested on suspicion of murder after handing himself in at a south London police station. Police are also hunting two teenagers wearing hooded tops who fled the scene and may have been involved in the scuffle.Security guards at a nearby office last night described how they took the little girl away. One staff member said: "I said she shouldn't be watching something like that, I asked around to see whose child she was and somebody said she was the victim's, so I took her away into our building."He said that the three-year-old was "in shock, her eyes were wide open". She was muttering under her breath occasional words like "mum" and "Mayday".Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons, who is leading the investigation, said the circumstances had left him and other officers extremely shocked. He said the tragedy must "prick people's consciences" and encourage them to come forward with any information they have.Lyons said he could not rule out a random attack. He said: "It is a double tragedy for the three-year-old, his wife and the son he will never see. The victim's three-year-old daughter was with him when he was attacked, though fortunately she wasn't physically injured. Even more tragically, his partner had given birth to a son just that morning."