The young mother who suffered horrific injuries in a stabbing attack last month yesterday revealed that she has regained the ability to speak and breathe unaided for short periods.In a statement released from the Royal National Orthopaedic hospital in Stanmore, Middlesex, Abigail Witchalls said that she had also recovered feeling throughout her body. "The staff here are wonderful and I am making progress every day," said Mrs Witchalls. "I have sensation over most of my body and the pain is less now."I can move my head, but as yet, I cannot move my arms and legs. I can breathe and speak on my own for short periods. Please pass on my thanks to everyone for their prayers and support. God is doing beautiful things."Mrs Witchalls, 26, was left for dead on a country lane near her home in the quiet Surrey village of Little Bookham on April 20. Her attacker chased her and held a knife to her 21-month-old son's throat before plunging it into her neck. The little boy, Joseph, was unhurt. But his mother sustained such a serious wound to her spinal cord that doctors at first feared she would not survive.Paralysed from the neck down and unable to speak, she had to communicate by laboriously mouthing simple words or blinking. She thus managed to give police a description of her attacker.Dr Fred Middleton, a spinal rehabilitation consultant, described Mrs Witchalls as "an extremely courageous and motivated patient".He said it could take months before the outcome of her very complex injuries became clear. "Abigail is an extremely courageous and motivated patient, which along with the continued support of her family will significantly help her rehabilitation," he said.Mrs Witchalls' husband, Benoit, also spoke publicly last night for the first time about her condition and her amazing mental strength."She's a remarkable character," said the 26-year-old engineer, in an interview on BBC's Crimewatch programme, which staged a reconstruction of the attack in an appeal to get further information from the public. "I think I've had a crash course in spinal injury and you just can't tell anything for the first month so it's a case of wait and see really."But she's still got her smile, which is very comforting to see. We feel very lucky and blessed because she is fully present as herself. It's just great to see and it's a great joy. You can see it in her face when she sees Joseph."Mr Witchalls said the first word his wife spelt out when she tried to communicate was "happy" because she was so relieved Joseph escaped physically unscathed.News of Mrs Witchalls' progress came as detectives continued to investigate two key suspects and forensic experts tested bloodstains in the hope they could provide crucial evidence within days.They are examining a pair of trousers belonging to Richard Cazaly, a 23-year-old gardener who fled Little Bookham five days after the attack and committed suicide in Scotland.He died in hospital after an overdose of painkillers. There were unconfirmed reports he was cremated after a family funeral service in Hampshire on Tuesday.Cazaly, who was questioned briefly twice about the attack, is understood to have told ex-girlfriend, Vanessa McKenzie, "I might have done it" and told her to go home to Australia. Surrey detectives interviewed her there. He also left suicide notes, saying: "I can't remember. I must have done it."But police sources said the notes were not conclusive evidence as there was no direct reference to Mrs Witchalls or the attack. They are also testing blood residue found on a car and a door handle linked to a 25-year-old man, arrested but released when Mrs Witchalls failed to pick him out of a video identity parade.Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper, the officer in charge, confirmed there were two prime suspects, but stressed police were following up 38 other names, and the case was by no means closed. The inquiry has yielded more than 700 calls from the public."The case presented very complex forensic and identification issues which are being progressed as quickly as possible but which will nevertheless take some time to resolve," he said. "We cannot rely on circumstantial evidence. We must be certain when we conclude this investigation that we have the right person."