The number of potentially dangerous violent and sex offenders being tracked in the community by specialist agencies after being released from prison has risen by 12% to 52,809 in the past year, the Home Office said yesterday.The prisons and probation minister, Paul Goggins, said the increase was expected as a result of the establishment of the multi-agency public protection arrangements (Mappa), set up in April 2001. For the first time the Home Office put the number of the "critical few" - hardcore paedophiles and others - at 2,843 in England and Wales. These are sex offenders and violent criminals who are considered to pose a high risk to the public. They face supervised tracking arrangements by probation and social services, and the police. Mr Goggins said the total figure was expected to be higher than last year's first batch because some offenders remain on the probation service's books for longer than a year, or for life. The police, probation and other agencies, such as housing, health, and social services, make up the panels that share information to draw up a risk assessment on each individual and institute tracking arrangements. The Home Office figures published yesterday show that 45 of the 2,843 most serious offenders committed a further crime during the year. Seventeen of these were paedophile offences. A total of 468 from the 52,809 people who are liable for supervision were sent back to jail before they committed another offence because their behaviour was of concern to the police or the probation service. Eithne Wallis, the director general of the national probation service, said: "This is evidence of these arrangements biting. They were taken back to jail because they had breached a condition of their licence or, in some cases, were going to places that had put us on the alert because it was an indication of them going back to their old ways." So far, 15 members of the public - eight women and seven men - have been appointed to sit on eight of the 42 area Mappa panels which consider what to do in cases involving the "critical few". The appointees are usually parents. The rest of the country will see lay members of the public included on the panels later this year. The inclusion of members of the public was part of the package of measures brought in following a number of vigilante attacks and protests over paedophiles.