Tony Blair will use his last press conference before departing for his Caribbean holiday to announce plans to more than double the size of the controversial foundation hospitals programme.In a month riven with political crises, the prime minister will again risk taking on his own fractious Labour MPs and trade unionists by saying that continuing reform should include inviting an additional 38 top-performing hospitals to apply for foundation status. It shows that Mr Blair has lost none of his appetite for a reform package which caused the biggest backbench revolt against his government. The bill creating foundation hospitals squeaked through ear lier this month with a majority of just 35. Currently, 25 hospitals are being considered for foundation status, half the number eligible under the government's criteria. Now all 63 trusts which have been awarded the three-star top grade by the independent health regulator may be included in the scheme before the next election. Mr Blair will also use the press conference to emphasis successes in the public sector and cite them as proof that the government is capable of delivery. But his desire to stem the flow of press questions about the suicide of David Kelly - by that arguing the issues should be left to the Hutton inquiry which starts on Friday - will not prevent most of tomorrow's televised ques tion and answer session being dominated by the aftermath of the Iraq war. Repeating the format of his pre-summer press conference in July last year, Mr Blair will none the less wheel out the head of the Downing Street delivery unit, Michael Barber, to justify his claim that the government is making substantial progress in health and education, but has failed to make it in other areas such as transport congestion. Deploying the plethora of charts and graphs used during private No 10 stocktaking sessions with ministers, Mr Barber aims to show where the government is making progress and where it is not. Critics will point out that since last July the government has scrapped a large number of unobtainable Home Office and transport targets, including those for cutting road congestion. The independence of the system of measuring progress has ome under attack from the public administration select committee. Tomorrow Mr Blair and Mr Barber will have to admit that the government is not on course to meet targets in a number of areas. It will not meet its chief primary school target of ensuring that by 2004 85% of 11-year-olds achieve level four or above and 35% achieve level five or above. Mr Barber has admitted the that government is some way off achieving its target of ensuring that no one has to wait for more than four hours at an accident and emergency unit. The target must be met by December 2004. The other main health department target is to ensure that by 2004 no patient waits for more than two working days to see a GP. In December 2002, 16% of patients did. Last summer Mr Barber revealed that the government was making slow progress towards the planned 14% reduction in robbery in five metropolitan areas in the five years to 2005. In the first two years robbery increased. The government aims to reduce congestion on inter-urban trunk roads and in large urban areas in England below 2000 levels by 2010. But the transport secretary, Alistair Darling, has admitted that this is in trouble. He has asked his department to re-examine how best to measure congestion.