The jury in the Sion Jenkins retrial visited the house today where the deputy headteacher is alleged to have battered his foster daughter to death.The six men and six women arrived in Hastings, East Sussex, in a large white coach escorted by police motorbikes before entering the house accompanied by the trial judge, Mr Justice David Clarke, and lawyers. Billie-Jo Jenkins, 13, was found with extensive head injuries, having been struck at least five times with a metal tent peg in February 1997. She had been painting the patio doors at the home she shared with her foster parents, Sion Jenkins and his first wife Lois, and their four daughters.Mr Jenkins, 48, denies murder and is facing his second trial this year at the Old Bailey after the first jury failed to reach a verdict in the summer. The defendant, from Lymington, Hampshire, was not making a visit to his former home today at his own request, the court was told. Yesterday Nicholas Hilliard, prosecuting, told the trial that Mr Jenkins murdered Billie-Jo at a time when he was under pressure. He had lied on his CVs to get his job and repeated the lies about his education and employment to apply to be head of the school - a post that was taking a long time to be confirmed, Mr Hilliard said. Mr Jenkins and his former wife had argued the night before about Billie-Jo, a girl he later described to police as "difficult", he added. Billie-Jo had wanted to paint the patio doors but got paint on the windows during a hectic day, the jury heard. Mr Hilliard said it was during a brief return to the house by Mr Jenkins that Billie-Jo was killed. He told police that he went into the dining room to turn down the volume of the girl's music centre, but had not noticed Billie-Jo on the other side of the patio doors. Mr Hilliard said: "The defendant said he turned it down and there was no reaction from Billie-Jo at all." He asked: "Did she turn it up again? Something must have happened to cause him to lose his temper?" The trial continues.