It is not hard to imagine the scene inside Downing Street and the Home Office shortly before Christmas. A high-profile appearance by Gordon Brown and Jacqui Smith loomed in the diary. The event, in the prime minister's words, was intended to "send a signal about knife crime". So someone decided to cook the books, manipulating incomplete data to suggest that tough new laws were working. The result was a distorted and unsubstantiated press release and factsheet that smashed rules on the proper presentation of official data. All this is known because the chair of the new UK Statistics Authority, Sir Michael Scholar, fired off a sharp letter to Downing Street the next day, warning that "the publication of prematurely released and unchecked statistics is corrosive of public trust". In the Commons, Ms Smith admitted to MPs that the government had been "too quick off the mark". But the sin was more serious than that, as a report this week from the UKSA shows. Issued to coincide with the publication of a sensible new code of practice for official statistics, it finds the government guilty of 10 breaches of good practice, among them that the information was unclear, selective, inappropriate and released despite protests from senior statisticians. No evidence was given to support the home secretary's claim that "if you do carry a knife you are three times more likely to be sent to prison". A weary public, distrustful of all statistics, may not be surprised to hear of such conniving; it is a common enough occurrence. Before the year was out the Conservatives had stepped forward with their own set of dubious and premature figures on knife crime. But Sir Michael is right to insist that official statistics are treated with respect. Mr Brown has, to his credit, tried to help, setting up the UKSA and, from last month, cutting the advance warning that officials and ministers get of new statistics from five days to 24 hours. But Sir Michael argues that this staggered release schedule sits uneasily with the principle that access to data should be shared equally. Government spin doctors do not deserve a head start. And in the case of the knife crime data - issued after the new rules were imposed - the Home Office ripped the figures out of context; the official timetable was ignored entirely. It remains unclear who decided to misuse this data, how they got hold of it and why official statisticians were not able to stop its release. Governments hate the way the media talks up the fear of crime, usually ignoring good news and promoting the bad. But public trust depends on reliable information. Putting out partial numbers and unsubstantiated boasts is a terrible way to win it back.