A 14-year-old boy who stabbed his older brother to death in their home after an argument over a scratched CD escaped jail yesterday.The boy, who claimed it was an accident and he forgot he had a kitchen knife in his hand, was given a three-year supervision order and told by Judge Martin Stephens that it was "no soft option". He said: "Your poor brother has died, your mother and sister and indeed you, have lost a son and a brother, and everyone has suffered terribly. Nobody thinks that you meant to kill your brother. "We all know that brothers ... sometimes fight and bait each other, but never intend to really harm each other. Despite the terrible result of what you did, your mother still loves you and wants you home." The teenager, who cannot be named for legal reasons, and his 16-year-old brother returned from school to their home in south London. Their mother was at work. David Waters QC, for the prosecution, said they began to argue over a scratched compact disc. "The dispute developed into violence and the two boys fought, initially in the hallway, and the struggle continued into the kitchen," he said. "The older boy had his younger brother in a headlock. The 14 year old felt like he was choking and took hold of a kitchen knife." The fight continued into the garden, where the older boy prodded his brother with a broom handle, saying he was "bait". Still holding the knife, the younger brother turned to push him and caught him in the neck with the blade. Suffering a severed artery, the injured boy ran to a medical centre. He was treated by doctors before being taken to Lewisham hospital where he died three hours later. The 14 year old admitted attacking his brother. A knife was later recovered from a kitchen drawer and the broom handle was found covered in the dead boy's blood. The teenager told police: "I was so scared and pushed him and the blade caught him on the neck. I had forgotten I still had the knife in my hand. It was an accident. I did not mean to stab him." Judge Stephens said: "Most people who kill someone, especially with a knife, get sent away. "Precious life has been lost, but this is a wholly exceptional case. It is in the overall interest of society and your family that I should not send you away. The programme prepared for you is no soft option."