The Metropolitan Police Service has introduced teams of officers to conduct "stop and search" operations using section 60 of the Public Order Act 1994, a power that allows officers to search anyone for weapons without the reasonable suspicion usually required before someone can be searched.According to the last published Home Office figures, only 14% of searches in London were for weapons. With gun and knife crime and teenage murders such a major concern in London and across the country, clearly the police had to do more, but is this the right police response?The answer to gun and knife crime, and indeed most types of crime including terrorism, is not the draconian application of force by the police but the active participation of the public in the policing process, traditionally known as "policing by consent". The current solution of teams of officers using unjustified (by reasonable suspicion) stop and search is likely to undermine trust and confidence in the police, making the police even less effective.Some 27 years after the Brixton riots when the community vented its anger on the police for excessive and discriminatory use of stop and search, you are still almost five times more likely to be stopped and searched if you are black in London, and even more so in the rest of the UK, than if you are white, an inexcusable unfairness that is getting worse.Senior police officers are caught on the horns of a dilemma when it comes to stop and search, at least those who are prepared to admit there is a problem. The spectre of the aftermath of the McPherson Report into the tragic death of Stephen Lawrence, when police officers disengaged from stop and search in the face of allegations of "institutional racism" and street robbery rose to unprecedented levels, still haunts them. Some senior officers believe that any attempt to address the unfairness of stop and search will be seen as an admission of racism, resulting in disengagement by frontline officers from the tactic and dire consequences for crime levels.Instead, the elephant in the room is ignored and the police bulldoze onward with tactics that are likely to make the disproportionality worse, catch more and more innocent people in the stop and search net and cause even greater resentment, hostility and disillusionment.Stop and search is a valuable tool in the prevention and detection of offences but it must be used appropriately and effectively; you may be five times more likely to be stopped and searched if you are black, but you are 10 times more likely to be stopped and searched if you have nothing on you than if you have committed an offence (only one in 10 searches results in an arrest). Stop and search needs to be much more intelligence-led.British policing is based on consent, the active participation of the public in the policing process. If the police are to be effective, the public must act as the eyes and ears of the police, reporting criminal or suspicious behaviour and being willing, if necessary, to be witnesses in criminal proceedings. Increasing numbers of people need to be convinced that the police are on their side, that the police are there for them and that they are worth helping and supporting. Policing by consent is at risk. The recent spate of teenage murders provides a historic opportunity for the police, last seen in the 1990s. Then, in the face of unprecedented levels of gun crime, a reluctant black community decided to cooperate with the police to halt the bloodshed through Operation Trident.There is no point in carrying a gun or a knife if you do not use it to frighten or threaten people with it. As a result, hundreds of law-abiding people know exactly who the gun and knife men are, but they do not trust the police enough to identify them, even anonymously. Operation Trident worked, albeit in the limited area of black-on-black gun crime, to bring the police and the community together to deal with a serious problem, similar to the one we face today. If the police can successfully adopt a Trident-type approach, they could then effectively target stop and search on those active criminals named by the community.The answer to gun and knife crime is to build trust and confidence between the police and the community, not further erode policing by consent through the insensitive use of stop and search. The black community can show us how it can be done.