The widow of a man who died after being stoned by a gang of boys said that justice had not been done and criticised the law after each child was handed a 12-month supervision order yesterday.Ernest Norton, 67, was playing cricket with his son, James, at Erith leisure centre in south-east London in February 2006 when five boys aged between 10 and 13 started to pelt them with sticks and stones and shout abuse. A stone struck the retired draughtsman on the temple, fracturing his cheekbone, and he collapsed with a heart attack.James Norton ran to the leisure centre to fetch his mother, Linda. His father lay unconscious while she held his hand and called his name. He was pronounced dead in an ambulance on the way to hospital.The boys, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were found guilty of manslaughter and violent disorder at the Old Bailey in August and sentenced to two years in prison. But their manslaughter convictions were quashed by the court of appeal last month after they had served 55 days. The safety of those convictions was challenged on the grounds that it could not be established which of the allegedly unlawful or dangerous actions - if any - had contributed to Norton's heart attack.Judge Warwick McKinnon, sitting at Croydon crown court, said the law prevented him from sending them to prison for violent disorder. "The law is such that I am obliged to pass a supervision order."He told the five: "I simply hope that what has happened to you, that you had to serve two months of the original sentence, has benefited you. It would mean that some good has come out of the case."Linda Norton, 56, said she had been let down. "I'm feeling numb again. I was not expecting one year," she said. "Justice has not been done but that is the way the law is and that's all you can do unless they change the law. You just have to keep on and just try to get on with life."Norton said she feared the boys had not learnt from their experiences and did not realise the consequences of their actions. "Now we have to see whether they behave themselves. I don't suppose it's even taught them a lesson. Perhaps it would have done if more had come of it."She said her son, who was 17 at the time of the attack, had done his best to move on. "James is fine, I think he's blanked it out. He does not talk about it much."The Metropolitan police officer who led the investigation, Detective Inspector Clive Hayes, suggested that the law be changed to take into account cases such as that of Norton."That's clearly a matter for the legislators but in my view it is clearly wrong and does not make sense," he said.