Mike used to pride himself on his health, running double marathons and working as a personal trainer, but now he looked painfully thin and nervous. Sat in the bright living room of a safehouse where he lived for three months, he described having to retrain himself to eat properly after being kept in squalid conditions and forced to work unpaid for three years. He was, he said, a modern-day slave."Before this happened I never even thought it could happen in this country, or that it could happen to men," he said. "But if you are desperate enough, anyone could find themselves in this trap."Mike is one of hundreds of men and women who are trafficked into Britain for the profit of their unscrupulous bosses, according to a government report. Estimates released on anti-slavery day suggest the number of people being trafficked into and around the UK is rising, with 946 victims in contact with authorities last year, compared with 710 in 2010.The report by the inter-departmental ministerial group on human trafficking states that trafficking gangs in China, Vietnam, Nigeria and eastern Europe now pose the biggest threat. But it is not just a foreign national problem, said Helen Grant, the newly appointed victims minister. "This exploitation of vulnerable people by predatory gangs is not something that any civilised society should be prepared to accept," she said. "It is happening to men, women and children, to foreign nationals and to British citizens."Perched on the edge of a bed in a safehouse for trafficking victims in the south-east that the Guardian had been given access to, Grant said it was difficult to know whether there had been an increase in trafficking or just in the reporting of the crime, but she believed the crime affected many more people than the official numbers suggested. "Trafficking has been a forgotten issue that has happened behind closed doors, but now I think we are starting to see the true extent of it," she said. "I certainly think the problem is greater than we are seeing."Grant worked as a solicitor supporting victims of domestic violence before becoming a Conservative MP. "In the past there was a refusal to accept that domestic violence happened, and thank goodness we have come along from that, but we have to realise that human trafficking for manual labour, sexual exploitation or the harvesting of organs exists," she said.The report details two cases of people trafficked for illegal organ harvesting, which were stopped before any operation was carried out. A report from the Salvation Army released on Thursday said that of the 378 individuals it helped in 2011/12, 44% were trafficked for labour exploitation, 42% for sexual exploitation and one for the purposes of organ removal.According to the government study, 712 adult victims and 234 child victims were reported last year to the national referral mechanism, the body that identifies trafficking victims. Campaigners suggest the true figures could be significantly higher as many victims feared being deported if they tried to escape their situation.Aidan McQuade, director of Anti-Slavery International, accused the government of a series of policy failings that he said could lead to an increase in trafficking, including the removal of the right for migrant domestic workers to change employers and the failure to extend to remit of the gangmasters licensing authority."The fact that this issue continues to be seen through the prism of immigration means the decision on whether to protect a trafficked person is based more on their nationality rather than their right under the law to receive support," he said. "It seems clear that until the government appoints a trafficking commissioner to co-ordinate its anti-trafficking obligations we will continue to see policy impeded by politics."According to the report, Nigerians were the largest group of potential trafficking victims, and Romanians the biggest group in Europe. It estimates there were 92 organised crime groups in the UK with known involvement in human trafficking, and 142 defendants were charged with offences related to human trafficking in 2011-12. It states that thousands of frontline workers including doctors, police, border staff and airline workers have been trained to better identify victims of trafficking in the past two years.At the safehouse, Mike described how he had been coerced into slavery after losing his job and becoming homeless. After sleeping rough on a beach for two weeks, a man approached him as he was making his way to a train station, offering him accommodation and work in exchange for £20. His accommodation was a filthy hut on a caravan site to be shared with another man; his payment between £5-10 a week for hard labour doing ground work seven days a week. "I was just one of their tools, just a way to make them money," he said.He was hit once for bringing no work in on a particular day, and said other men were hit daily. He felt unable to leave because of the threat of violence. "By the end I let go of all of my humanity and I just thought I deserved it," he said. "The fear was that if I tried to leave I would be run over, hit by cars. In the end it seemed easier to stay than to go."When the site was raided by police who suspected men were being used as slaves, Mike did not believe his ordeal was over. But he accepted help and spent three months in a safehouse run by the Salvation Army, which runs 19 establishments across England and Wales after winning funding worth £2m from the Home Office and Ministry of Justice last year.Mike hoped his story might encourage others to come forward and seek help. "I want to get the message out there, I want people to realise that it does happen. People need to get out and seek help because there is help out there." He was looking forward to a brighter future. "I am more positive, I just want a job, to work in an office," he said. "I just want a normal life."• This article was amended on 19 October 2012. It quoted Helen Grant talking about the harvesting of sexual organs. She was referring to the harvesting of organs. This has been corrected.