The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies. Judge Mohammed Ilyas Khan may be the most reviled man in Britain. The 60-year-old immigration judge is the central player in an affair involving sex, blackmail, explicit videos, torrid emails and a dalliance with his cleaner, an illegal immigrant once married to a Albanian mobster. As Dr Johnson told Boswell: 'A judge may grow unfit for his office in many ways.' Few have mustered such a comprehensive list.Today, the cleaner, Roselane Driza, is in Holloway jail, awaiting sentencing for blackmailing Khan's former partner, named only as Judge J, and for stealing two homemade sex videos from Khan. The mirth over his description of his former lover as 'chilli hot stuff' is over and we are on to the bit in which Khan gets scorched on a bonfire of the moralities.The first complaint is that open justice has been assaulted by the trial judge's attempts to gag reporting of the case. While the media appealed, rightly and successfully, against some restrictions, it is normal for victims of alleged blackmail to have anonymity, as Khan did until the jury found the charge unproven, whereupon his past was picked to the bone.Evangelists for openness should forget the Driza trial and consider instead the ongoing court martial of seven soldiers charged over the death of Baha Mousa, an Iraqi hotel receptionist. Under an unprecedented ban imposed by the judge advocate, the public may know nothing of any defendant, including the one who has confessed to war crimes, beyond his name, rank, age and unit. So much for justice being seen to be done.Meanwhile, Khan, who has been accused of no crime, has had his life ruined. Quite right, say those appalled at his behaviour. How lucky for the squeamish that Britain has been spared even worse offenders, such as Judge Jones of Nebraska, who signed court orders 'Snow White' and urinated on the carpet of a colleague he disliked, or Judge Thompson of Oklahoma, allegedly observed shaving his scrotum as a prosecutor gave her closing address.While UK justices, such as Lord Thankerton, who knitted while presiding, have tended towards blander public quirks, Khan cannot be the only serving judge to have strayed from the path of private virtue somewhere between the Athenaeum and the potting shed. Obviously, people adjudicating the conduct of others should first judge themselves, but consensual sex is an odd catalyst for national outrage. It is especially weird in a week when a Labour conference paid homage to a deputy leader whose moral compass pointed straight to the secretarial pool.But the real revulsion against Khan, and the crux of any investigation by the Lord Chancellor, centres on Driza's status. Khan is not the first judge to have fallen foul of immigration law. President Clinton lost two potential attorney generals and a putative Supreme Court justice to rows over their illegal staff. There is no evidence that Khan was aware that Driza's student visa had lapsed, but ignorance may not be enough to save him.Mine is not the case for the defence. Khan was unwise and gullible, even if Driza sounds like a manipulator from hell. Judges, of all people, should be expected to show some judgment. But in the immediate aftermath of the trial, no one implied the slightest criticism of Khan's courtroom probity. Yet commentators branded him the poster boy for a degenerate Britain. Such attacks, worse than humbug, bear the bootmarks of xenophobes who found two perfect stereotypes. To them, Khan is the symbol of a country with loose borders and looser morals. And Driza is the crooked pack leader of all illegal incomers. Her jailing has slightly adjusted the scoreline. One down and 570,000 to go.Move on, for a moment, from judicial trouser-dropping. Remember The Observer's recent investigation into a senior immigration official accused of seeking sex from an 18-year-old Zimbabwean rape victim in exchange for helping her win her asylum claim. Look at Lunar House in Croydon, the immigration service's headquarters, where the vulnerable arrive in hope and linger in despair. Read the allegations of corrupt officers offering papers for £2,000 or so a case.From the Immigration and Nationality Directorate, deemed unfit for purpose by the Home Secretary, to the hospitals, shops and restaurants kept open by illegal and sweated labour, the system is riven with failure or hypocrisy. Even if it were possible or desirable, and it is neither, deporting the irregular migrant population would cost £4.7bn, according to the Institute for Public Policy Research.This Saturday, UK migrants will march in London, in an echo of the US demonstrations demanding equal rights. The protesters will not be judge bait, like Driza. Many will have fled vicious states, only to find that enlightened democracies have their own ways of subverting human rights. Some will end up in removal centres, their children incarcerated with them; some will not emerge alive. A failed Angolan asylum seeker hanged himself not long ago at Yarl's Wood so that his 13-year-old son, arrested with him, could go to school in Britain.Far from being 'swamped', Britain has seen asylum applications drop for the third year running, in line with the rest of the industrialised world. What is needed now is a proper tightening up of our porous borders, plus a one-off amnesty, or 'regularisation', for many of those who live and work in Britain's shadowlands, exploited and fearful of expulsion.The alternative is a deportation programme that would take 25 years to shift even the current undocumented migrants, besides enshrining a mood of spite and fear.The trend, though, moves the other way. Lord Carter's review of legal aid proposes such harsh cuts that the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, which wins 84.6 per cent of its cases against the Home Office, says good advocates will soon not be able to afford to take the work.The issue is not what judges get up to with their cleaners. It is that many people with rightful cases may, in the future, be denied access to the justice handed down by Khan's colleagues. One salacious trial has eclipsed the fact that the problem is not the quality but the quantity of justice on offer.Whether Khan will carry on dispensing it is unclear. He is no Solomon, nor anyone's hot tip for Master of the Rolls. Still, reckless or unsavoury as he may be, both his sins and influence are overrated. One critic wrote, absurdly, that it is 'no wonder that the immigration system is on the point of collapse, when the likes of Khan are in charge'. Ransacking the sex life of Judge Khan is merely a distraction from the real outrages of immigration. The system brims with scandals that far eclipse any follies of his.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk