The wife of serial killer Harold Shipman today said that she believed he is innocent.Primrose Shipman, 54, spoke publicly for the first time about her life with the doctor, in an inquiry into the deaths of 401 of his patients.The questioning of Mrs Shipman centred on the deaths of two 74-year-old women patients in Hyde, Greater Manchester, when she was said to have accompanied her husband on visits to their home. But as the hearing got under way, the inquiry's chairman, Dame Janet Smith, revealed that Mrs Shipman had been granted immunity from any criminal charges that could arise against her or her husband from the evidence she gave.Mrs Shipman said she remained "convinced" that her husband was innocent of killing the 15 elderly women that Preston crown court last year sentenced him to spend the rest of his life in prison for murdering.She also told the inquiry she had no recollection of an incident at Shipman's former practice in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, 27 years ago, when a 25-year-old patient almost died. The woman claimed later that Shipman had given her an injection.Questioned by Andrew Spink, representing several families of Shipman's victims, Mrs Shipman, said that her loyalty to her husband was in no way affecting her evidence. Mr Spink asked her: "You remain convinced of your husband's innocence of the charges on which he is convicted. Is that right?" Mrs Shipman replied: "Yes." She agreed she was assisting solicitors working on a possible appeal. Mr Spink: "Do you reassure the inquiry that is not in any way affecting your evidence?" But Dame Janet interrupted and told Mr Spink: "It seems Mrs Shipman is doing her best to remember matters and tell the truth." In a statement handed to the inquiry before she started her evidence, Mrs Shipman, married to the GP for 35 years, said that she was making it under the compulsion of a witness summons. She also complained of "publicity and intrusion" she had suffered over her husband's case. "Since August 1998 I have been through an enormous amount of emotional trauma, stress and anxiety arising out of the police investigation and subsequent prosecution of the allegations concerning my husband and police interest and investigation into my own position." She said national and international media intrusion into her family life had forced her to live at four different addresses since her husband's arrest. "I have found this whole history extremely difficult and distressing," the statement said.