The killers of Daniel Pelka, 4, identified as his mother and stepfather, were jailed for life last week; all that was left to contemplate was pages of newsprint detailing his torture. There is an accepted convention in such cases. Strangers erupt with terror and fury; photographs of the haunted child, now so remote, are circulated; relatives swear ignorance or revenge; the dismantling of a civilised criminal justice system seems, briefly, attractive, the better to punish the monsters in our midst; social workers, too often slammed for over-interference, are damned for the opposite, and chased away from their vocation like perpetrators; the local MP calls, inevitably, for resignations.The facts – that it is almost impossible to prevent dedicated and duplicitous psychopaths murdering children without placing thousands more in care, and that child murder has declined dramatically since the 1970s – are ignored. Then, nothing.We have, it seems, infinite pity for a tormented child, and this is righteous. But when – if – they grow up, what happens? If a victim child becomes a victim adult – a survivor with all the scars and struggles of a survivor – where is the pity then?Abused children are often, it is too obvious to type, disturbed. In its report Justice for Young People the Howard League for Penal Reform notes: "those [children] involved in violence were significantly more likely than their non-violent counterparts to be: victims of crime and adult harassment; engaged in self-harming and parasuicidal behaviour; exhibiting a range of problematic health risk behaviours including drug use, regular alcohol consumption, disordered patterns of eating, and symptoms of depression; having more problematic family backgrounds; and, for girls in particular, coming from a background characterised by extreme poverty." The science is well-established. Loved children learn to love easily; hated children, less so. Early intervention, costly and difficult, can limit the damage.So how do we respond, beyond the convention above, best illustrated, I think, by the deputy prime minister Nick Clegg's reassuring, if meaningless, "his [Daniel Pelka's] death should be on all of our consciences"?Where, for example, is the fury at the rise in child poverty, which reverses a dramatic decline in the early years of the century? Now 4.7 million children are projected to be living in poverty by 2020. These are cruel times and much nonsense is written of the fecklessness of the low-paid and unemployed, even as vital support services (community care grants and crisis loans and so forth) are ripped away from the most desperate, considered too luxurious for these worthless creatures. What is left unwritten is that poor adults have poor children; poverty is stressful, and worse, and these children are more likely to be abused than others. Is this on all our consciences?Where is the fury at the criminalisation of vulnerable children? No country in western Europe criminalises children more swiftly than Britain; criminalisation is almost always the opposite of rehabilitation, which is by far the better course. No matter. You can stand in the dock of the Old Bailey at the age of 10 in England, in a grotesque parody of the Monty Python sketch where a child is condemned to death by John Cleese; in Scotland it is 12, although the minimum age at which children can be held responsible for crimes is eight. In 2011 203,408 children were arrested, of whom 2,006 were under 11; as the Howard League for Penal Reform notes: "Wrongdoing by children in England and Wales is more likely to receive a criminal justice response than a welfare one." Is this on all our consciences too?In the nightmare landscape of abused children, institutional care is often the better choice, but it is imperfect and under-funded. The Lib Dem MP Sir Alan Beith, the chair of the Commons justice committee, was appalled to find "one example of the police being called to a children's home to investigate a broken cup. Poor behaviour," he said, "which would be dealt with within the family, should not be an express route into the criminal justice system for children who do not have the benefit of a normal family life."Even so, the Oxford abuse scandal exposed female children leaving care to be raped, and returning; the girls complained to police and social services, and were repeatedly ignored or, as is characteristic in these cases, because skilled paedophiles know how to choose their victims, disbelieved. This happened in the Jimmy Savile case too, because a raped child is too often considered an unreliable witness; as the ex-editor of Newsnight, Peter Rippon, noted when dropping the Savile story, they "just" had the testimony of the now grown women.The popular lesson learnt from Oxford was not, it seems, that there had been a grotesque failure to protect vulnerable children; but that Pakistani men are particularly prone to paedophilia, another nonsensical conclusion, another populist fart in the wind. Is this on all our consciences too?It is curious how age stops pity. Society, it seems, is more comfortable with a victim that is small, pliant, grateful, silent. Let them grow, and watch the story change.Twitter: @TanyaGold1 • This article was amended on 5 August 2013. An earlier version said that in Scotland children could be prosecuted in a criminal court at eight. Scotland raised the age at which children could be prosecuted in 2010 from eight to 12.