A nursing home worker died instantly when she walked into a "Wild West" style shootout between two 17-year-olds in south-east London, a court heard yesterday.Magda Pniewska, 26, from Poland, was shot in the head on October 2 last year when a gunfight erupted in a street in New Cross between two youths "with a score to settle" over an unpaid debt.One teenager, from Streatham Hill, went on trial at the Old Bailey yesterday for murder, attempted murder and possessing a gun to endanger life. He cannot be named for legal reasons. The other suspect had been named by the defendant and was arrested by police, but has not been charged because of insufficient evidence, the court was told."Magda was to become the innocent victim of a gunfight by two young men who were total strangers to her," said Brian Altman QC, prosecuting. "She was in the wrong place at the wrong time. She was caught in the crossfire between two youths armed with handguns which they were willing to use in public."Pniewska had just finished a nine-hour shift at Bupa's Manley Court nursing home opposite the car park where the shooting happened at 6pm. She was in "good spirits" when, laden with shopping, she took a short cut up a flight of steps 500 metres from her front door. She was on the phone to her sister Elizabeta Luby, who had called her from Poland.The encounter between the two youths had been pre-arranged, the court heard, and the defendant claimed the other owed him money. He told police he had been sitting in a car with friends when the other youth arrived at the meeting and started firing at him with a handgun. "He immediately drew his gun and fired in the direction of the other youth before each ran off unharmed," Altman said. "Only after the exchange of fire did people realise an innocent passerby had been shot and killed."She died instantly in the car park at John Williams Close, where she lived with her partner, Radoslaw Lipka. Altman said the prosecution did not accept the defendant's claim that he had only fired his 9mm handgun two or three times into the air to scare the other youth.It was accepted the bullet that killed Pniewska had not come from the gun he fired. However, this did not absolve the defendant of criminal responsibility, Altman said, "because he was party to the use of unlawful violence between himself and the other youth by means of discharging of prohibited weapons with the intention to kill".The court heard that witnesses would give evidence from behind screens using pseudonyms and that some of their voices would need to be disguised to protect their identities. The trial continues.