 Marie West, 81, was a retired shopkeeper who owned a children's clothes shop in Hyde. She was a widow and lived in Gee Cross. She was Shipman's first murder victim in March 1995 while her friend Marion Hadfield stood unaware in her kitchen. Irene Turner, 67, died in July 1996. She was a retired secretary and the widow of an insurance broker. She lived in Godley, near Hyde. Shipman certified the cause of death as circulatory failure, ischaemic heart disease, diabetes mellitus and hypertension.  Lizzie Adams, 77, was a retired seamstress and her late husband Edmund worked as an engineering labourer. She died in February 1997 and Shipman certified her cause of death as bronchopneumonia.  Jean Lilley, 59, who died in April 1997, was the only victim who was not single, divorced or widowed. Her husband, Albert, is a lorry driver. Cause of death certified as heart failure, ischaemic heart disease, hypertension with fibrosing alveolitis and hypercholesterol anaemia.  Ivy Lomas, 63, the widow of an engineer, died in Shipman's surgery in May 1997. Neighbours say she was a shy woman who found it difficult to make friends. A regular visitor to the surgery, Shipman joked he might reserve a seat for her in his waiting room.  Muriel Grimshaw, 76, was a widow who died in July 1997. She was born in Stockport. Shipman certified the cause of death as cerebro-vascular accident, hypertension and rheumatoid arthritis.  Marie Quinn, 67, was a volunteer for the Women's Royal Voluntary Service and attended St Paul's RC church in Hyde. A retired food process worker, Mrs Quinn was born in Burnley. She died in November 1997 and Shipman gave her cause of death as a stroke.  Bianka Pomfret,at 49, was Shipman's youngest victim. A divorcee originally from Germany, she lived alone in a terraced house in Hyde. Shipman blamed her death on coronary thrombosis, ischaemic heart disease, smoking and chronic manic depression.  Laura Kathleen Wagstaff, 81, died in December 1997. She was known as Kathleen by her friends. Mrs Wagstaff was born in Middlesbrough and was the widow of a retired garage manager. Shipman certified her cause of death as coronary thrombosis and ischaemic heart disease.  Norah Nuttall, 65, died in January 1998. Her late husband John had been a builder's labourer. She was born in Hyde. Shipman certified her cause of death as left ventricular failure, congestive heart failure, hypertension and obesity.  Pamela Hillier, 70, was born in Mitcham, Surrey. She was a retired secretary and her late husband Cyril had been a financial adviser. She died in February 1998; Shipman certified the cause of death as cerebro-vascular accident and hypertension.  Maureen Ward, 57, was single and lived in sheltered accommodation flats in Hyde. The cause of death certified by Shipman was carcinomatosis (secondary in brain) and carcinoma breast. Several days before she died in February 1998, she told her friends that she was planning to go on a cruise.  Winifred Mellor, 73, a retired nursery nurse, was born in Salford, and died in May 1998. Shipman certified the cause of death as coronary thrombosis.  Joan Melia, 73, was a retired postroom supervisor, who lived alone in Hyde. She was born in Flixton, Greater Manchester and died in June 1998. Shipman certified the cause of death as lobar pneumonia and emphysema.  Kathleen Grundy, Shipman's last victim. She was almost 82 when she was murdered in June 1998. A former mayoress of Hyde, she was still actively involved in the community. She was a regular volunteer at the Age Concern charity shop in Hyde and helped out at a luncheon club for pensioners.