A senior civil servant at the Department of Constitutional Affairs has denied raping a woman in a government office, saying they engaged in consensual sex after a drinks party, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.Michael Burrell, 36, of Horsham, Sussex, has pleaded not guilty to the rape and indecent assault of a 39-year old married woman. Bobbie Cheema QC, prosecuting, said that on September 29 last year the woman, who was also a senior civil servant, attended a social function at which Burrell was present, after which he raped her twice. "After that function, she was raped by a man who she thought to be insignificant and insubstantial but she was wrong," Ms Cheema said. Mr Burrell, who had been working at the Department of Constitutional Affairs for six months, joined the party where the court heard there was a friendly and positive atmosphere with around 30 people in attendance. "She [the woman] was described by others as being bubbly and vivacious that evening. She took her shoes off and was in a relaxed and informal manner." The woman had made no particular effort to talk to Burrell that evening, despite the fact he persisted in hanging around her, Ms Cheema said. The woman planned to leave the party in time to catch the 11:30pm train home as she had an appointment early the next morning and had arranged a car to collect her. As the party died down, the woman went to collect her belongings and shoes and Mr Burrell followed her into the office, Ms Cheema said. "He manoeuvred her over to the sofa and soft chairs and pushed her over to the floor. He then raped her. She was utterly shocked. She told him 'Please don't!' She froze. Thereafter her memory of events is patchy." The pair stayed in the room for around five hours. The woman called a friend for help and left the building, taking a taxi to the friend's house. CCTV footage captures her leaving the building at 4:30am. After discussing the alleged events with her friend, she contacted police. Burrell left the office at around 8am, to buy breakfast and purchase a new shirt, the court was told. A medical examination showed the woman had sustained injuries consistent with non-consensual intercourse, the court was told. DNA samples from semen were later matched to Burrell. Burrell was arrested shortly after 6pm that evening, saying: "Yes, I understand, I just can't believe it." Each time he had been interviewed by police he had denied the allegations, saying the sex was consensual, the court heard. Mr Burrell had claimed that, on another occasion, at a function in the House of Commons, the woman had taken hold of his hand and "clasped it as an endearment." But Ms Cheema said evidence called during the trial would show the woman felt the opposite. She added:"The central issue in this case is likely to be consent. There is no dispute that sexual intercourse took place. Acquiescence or forced submission is not consent." The trial continues today.