An increasing number of white police officers are taking legal action for alleged discrimination in the wake of efforts by some forces to recruit and promote members of ethnic minorities.The level of resentment among white officers has been identified during the Morris inquiry, which was set up six months ago by the Metropolitan police after two high-profile cases of victimisation against black officers threatened to damage black recruitment. The inquiry headed by Bill Morris, the former leader of the Transport and General Workers' Union, has heard that half of the 15 race-related employment tribunal cases being handled by the Met involved white officers. The Nottinghamshire branch of the National Black Police Association reported that six white officers were claiming discrimination after an Asian sergeant was promoted. In a series of anonymous interviews taken by the inquiry at Met stations, one white officer said: "The perception is that black officers are only getting a promotion because they are black." Another urged the force to slow its drive to attract black candidates - so-called positive action - and examine the way white officers are treated. But the inquiry has also heard complaints from black officers claiming victimisation for trivial offences. Ray Powell, the president of the National Black Police Association, said yesterday that the evidence showed that police forces had failed to put in place policies which all officers could understand. "Ask somebody what positive action means and you'll get a number of different versions," he said. "There needs to be a level of understanding about the importance of a representative police service. "We haven't got that yet and it's only human nature that some white officers might get resentful." Evidence to the inquiry, partially leaked in yesterday's Observer, suggests that attempts to hire more black officers in the wake of the McPherson report into the murder of Stephen Lawrence have aggrieved all sides. The Met has a target of 25% of the force coming from ethnic minorities by 2009, which would reflect London's ethnic mix. At present the percentage is 6.5 but the target is widely seen as unattainable. Since 1998 the force has doubled the proportion of ethnic minority officers but Martin Tiplady, the Met's head of human resources, said in an interview with the Guardian in April: "If we carry on with 1% growth a year it will be years before we have a work force that is representative of the people we serve." In remarks subsequently endorsed by the Met he went on: "If we have an ethnic minority candidate and an indigenous candidate, then we can only select on merit. We want to explore if we can recruit not just on merit, but also on ethnicity." One answer is to change the Race Relations Act to legalise positive discrimination. This is being considered by the Metropolitan Police Authority and the Home Office. The inquiry has also uncovered complaints from women officers who spoke of the macho culture in police stations, with porn videos shown during breaks and a lack of sympathy for childcare friendly shifts. The report, expected before the end of the year, is expected to recommend changes in the way disciplinary cases and complaints are dealt with.