Three men have been jailed for a scam in which Sainsbury's was overcharged by nearly £9m.Andrew Behagg and David Baxter, former directors at the potato supplier Greenvale, showered Sainsbury's potato buyer John Maylam with gifts and hospitality in return for lucrative contracts.Maylam, 45, of Bearsted, Maidstone, Kent, admitted corruption and acquiring criminal property and was jailed for four years at Croydon crown court, in south London. Baxter, 50, of Hinstock, near Market Drayton in Shropshire, admitted the same charges and was jailed for 30 months.Behagg, 60, from Chatteris in Cambridgeshire, was found guilty of corruption by authorising payments to Maylam, and jailed for three years. The judge, Nicholas Ainley, said it was "very nearly as serious a case of corruption as I can imagine".A four-year police investigation revealed that £4.9m was paid to Maylam out of a fund created by the overcharging of Sainsbury's. The total amount the supermarket says it was overcharged by was £8.7m.Ainley said: "There will be many who find the details of frankly outrageous extravagance this case offers fascinating. But what must be remembered is that this is a case of bribery and corruption. But not just that. This is a case of corruption involving theft on a huge scale."Corruption because Greenvale wanted to keep the Sainsbury's contract – a contract for 45% of Sainsbury's potato contract, worth about £40m – and they offered Maylam, the Sainsbury's buyer, all the lavish entertainment he wanted, over £1m of it."The judge said the bribery may not have been necessary at all. "There may not have been a danger of losing the business," he said.Jurors in Behagg's trial heard that Maylam, a senior buyer, incurred expenses of £20,000 a month, spending the money at expensive restaurants and hotels including Claridge's and the Dorchester. He received lump sum payments via an account in Luxembourg to the tune of £1.5m.He and Baxter were drinking partners, the court heard, and spent large amounts of money on fine wines and food. Nicholas Walker, representing Maylam, said his client admitted the entertainment lavished on him was "excessive almost to the point of vulgarity". "Some of the restaurants that formed part of that reads like a gourmand's tour of London," Walker said.Baxter drank to such an extent that he was taken ill and diagnosed with cirrhosis of the liver, said his counsel, Robert Benzynie, which acted as a wake-up call. He had counted the entertainment as work, Benzynie said.Maylam was able to collude with Baxter, his key contact at Greenvale, to artificially inflate the price of potatoes from the firm to a higher rate than the one previously agreed with Sainsbury's. The normal variation in the price of potatoes, depending on the volume and quality of crops, allowed this to go unnoticed, with the surplus money put into what the defendants called "the fund".It was this pot that paid for Maylam's bribes, with no one else from Sainsbury's knowing of its existence, the court heard.The judge said: "It was Sainsbury's corrupt employee Maylam who was allowing himself to be bribed with what he knew was his employer's money. All three of you knew it. All three of you approved it. Two of you benefited from it."It was a Sainsbury's reserve account held by Greenvale, and you were using it in effect as your private account." He said the scam amounted to "a till being rifled".All three had been employed by their firms for many years – Maylam for about 20 years by Sainsbury's and Baxter for 30 years. Behagg worked "all his life for Greenvale - almost literally man and boy", said his counsel, William Clegg QC.Behagg, who was Greenvale's finance director, did not instigate the scam and did not benefit directly but was "aware of what was happening at a very early stage" and should have reported it, the court heard.The judge told Behagg: "You admitted in your own words that you were supposed to be the financial gatekeeper. You deliberately walked away from your post."Ainley told Maylam he had effectively taken money from his own employer. "You abused their trust so that you could lead the life of a very rich man. What started off as generous requirements for expenses rapidly became an utter abuse."Turning to Baxter, who was provided with a credit card to draw money from the fund, the judge said he had taken "the opportunity to lead the life of a rich man at somebody else's expense". He said he believed Baxter personally benefited by about £100,000.The scam took place between 2006 and 2008, coming to light after Greenvale's parent company, Produce Investments, ordered an investigation. A confiscation hearing will be held early next year.DS Tony Crampton, of City of London police, said: "This is a story of three men who have engaged in corruption. They have abused their position and betrayed the trust of their employers."Maylam and Baxter were greedy for a luxury lifestyle, frittering the money away on frivolous spending which was only made possible by Behagg's complicity. I think the men thought their fraud was so complex they would not be detected."A Sainsbury's spokeswoman said: "This was an unacceptable and calculated crime against Sainsbury's and we are pleased that justice has been done. Today's sentencing sends a very clear message to anyone that behaves in this way that there are consequences to their actions."We demand the highest standards of all our colleagues and suppliers and Sainsbury's code of conduct clearly details how we expect them to behave, and is reinforced by our confidential whistleblowing line."Greenvale's parent company said: "Produce Investments has no tolerance of bribery, corruption of any other wrongdoing in business. The sentencing of Andrew Behagg and David Baxter, formerly of Greenvale, and of former Sainsbury's buyer John Maylam, should serve to draw a line under this distressing saga."We would like to point out that we instigated the investigation in early 2008 and Andrew Behagg and David Baxter ceased to be Greenvale employees shortly thereafter. The investigation ultimately led to the charges faced by these three men. Since 2008 we have introduced strict new procedures to make sure that such abuse is now impossible."The firm said its relationship with Sainsbury's was "on a sound footing".