Traditional crime familiesPicking up where the Krays left off, today's crime families shun the limelight but, according to the National Criminal Intelligence Service, still represent the greatest threat to law and order. Active in all criminal activities from drugs and prostitution to money-laundering and protection, they have the advantage of occupying their home turf, thus forcing all other gangs to strike allegiances or risk constant confrontations. Yardies - aka crews, posses Currently the most violent and reckless of all the gangs in Britain. Originally composed of Jamaican illegal immigrants, they are now as likely to be made up of British-born blacks. They are most closely associated with the sale of crack, a drug so profitable it has spawned several teenage millionaires. Albanian mafia The new kids on the block. Heavily involved in prostitution and trafficking of illegal aliens, the Albanian gangsters are now using their foothold in the UK to launch themselves into the drug business, particularly the heroin trade. Police fear bloody clashes with Turkish and Pakistani gangsters who currently control the market. Cocaine cartels During the 1990s the Colombians were king and the world was fixated by the hunt for Pablo Escobar. Since his death, Colombia's cartels, though still a force to be reckoned with, have been eclipsed by the Brazilian and Mexican syndicates. With a sizeable Brazilian population in the UK, police and customs officials are watching closely. The Triads Criminal activity among the Chinese community is rarely reported outside the community itself, often leading to the impression that things have gone quiet. In fact the steady stream of drug trafficking, illegal gambling, prostitution and protection rackets that forms the heart of Triad activity continues unabated. Earlier this year several Chinese restaurants in London had their windows daubed with paint after refusing to pay protection. There have also been four Chinese men murdered in Dublin as rival gangs linked to the Triads attempted to set up protection rackets among the city's fast-growing student population. West African organised crime  Nigerian gangs are best known for their fraudulent activities, in particular the '419' letter, named after the section of the Nigerian Penal Code it contravenes. The letters, sent to gullible businessmen, offer them a multi-million pound share of some illegal funds being smuggled out of Africa in return for allowing their bank accounts to be used the hide the cash. Those foolish enough to accept find their accounts being emptied. Despite widespread publicity and almost universal knowledge of the scam, thousands continue to succumb. In March the National Criminal Intelligence Service reported a City worker who lost more than £1 million. The West African gangs are also increasingly moving into drug trafficking.