Stopping just short of promising blood, sweat and tears, John Reid yesterday signalled that it was time for graft. The remedy for the troubled Home Office, he told the Commons, was "unglamorous hard work". He blamed the many problems of his department - which have most recently included released foreign prisoners and confusion over asylum numbers - on a failure to keep pace with a rapidly changing world in which people are more mobile than ever before. A sharper focus, secured by a serious internal reconstruction, could finally drag it up to date and restore public trust.Yet for all the claims of a root-and-branch overhaul, the statement was distinctly managerial. A lot of senior managers will move jobs, he said - though talk of sackings looks like an exaggeration. Staff will be sent from head office to the frontline, which sounds attractive but could pose risks for core management. Mr Reid also promised operational autonomy for the Immigration and Nationality Directorate - in principle, a good way to sharpen performance, but one that will only work if ministers resist meddling in the day-to-day decisions - and the record on that is not good. All this amounts to a substantial refocusing of the way the Home Office works, but it will not in itself do anything to recover public trust. That will depend on the improved performance that Mr Reid hopes will flow from his changes - and, as yesterday's crime figures show, that is some way off. Street robbery has increased, even if the murder rate and household burglary have fallen.The bigger question - hardly addressed yesterday - is whether the Home Office's problems are really managerial at all. Put the right people in the right jobs, argues Mr Reid, and the system will work. There is much to be said for this approach (and no one would claim that the department has been well administered in the past), but it avoids the issue of whether the department is being asked to do the right things. This - as much as managerial reform - is surely what he should have addressed yesterday. Policies, not just personnel, have overloaded the department to the point where yesterday's announcement became necessary.Chief among these policies is the plan for a national identity card, hardly touched on in parliament yesterday, but now close to some sort of collapse. Identity cards are not just problematic in principle but also because of the administrative challenge they pose. The prime minister told MPs yesterday that the ID-card scheme is on track. But emails leaked last week suggest officials are uncertain about what information is to be stored, both on the cards and in the national register. The Home Office says that getting ID cards right is more important than any arbitrary timetable, but there are reports of a slimmed-down scheme being rushed through to save face. Meanwhile, Gordon Brown last week established his own forum on identity management, whose report next year could recommend further changes. Civil servants with no idea of where the policy is going are hardly in a strong position to procure the IT - a task that Whitehall struggles with at the best of times.Doubts about what the system will do flow from confusion about what it is for. This is a policy increasingly in search of a rationale. Different departments appear to have held different views: a policy confusion, not an administrative one, that must be addressed. Meanwhile Mr Reid's announcement today on criminal justice is likely to involve asking the struggling department to do even more. Managerial changes are necessary, but they will never function well if the Home Office pursues programmes that are ill-founded and inconsistent. Policy is the elephant in the room. If Mr Reid really wants to see officials run things better, he could make a good start by freeing them from the obligation to keep one particular elephant that is starting to look decidedly white.