Police investigating the deaths of three young children and their father at a Shropshire beauty spot have recovered a knife from the scene.A murder investigation was launched after the four bodies were discovered in a disused quarry at Pontesbury Hill, near Shrewsbury on Monday.Formal identification has yet to take place but the bodies are believed to be those of 35-year-old Ceri Fuller, his son Sam, 12, and daughters Rebecca, eight, and Charlotte, seven. The four went missing from their home in Gloucestershire last week.Police have refused to confirm reports that the children were stabbed to death or that their father may have leaped or fallen from a height. But the senior investigating officer, Detective Chief Inspector Neil Jamieson, said on Tuesday: "I can disclose that a weapon has been recovered from the scene. Officers involved in the search found a knife in the vicinity of where the bodies were found. It will now be forensically examined."Police are not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident. Jamieson has said the deaths appeared to be the result of a "tragic family situation".He added the old quarry and surrounding woodland at Poles Coppice on Pontesbury Hill will remain cordoned off as officers continue a detailed search of the area.Jamieson said postmortems to establish the cause of death will be conducted on Tuesday afternoon by a Home Office pathologist and may not be concluded until Wednesday.Ceri Fuller and the children were reported missing after leaving their home in the Forest of Dean either on Wednesday night or early Thursday morning.Gloucestershire Constabulary launched a missing persons inquiry and circulated their details.Their Land Rover was spotted by a member of the public at the entrance to Poles Coppice just before 10am on Monday. The four bodies were found within a 30-40-metre area inside the quarry shortly afterwards.Police are appealing for information about possible sightings of the vehicle and its four occupants on Thursday.Jamieson said: "We believe this vehicle left Gloucestershire at some point last Wednesday evening or early Thursday morning and we are anxious to establish its movements since then, especially in the Pontesbury area.We believe it was in the Leominster area at around midday on Thursday before making its way up towards Welshpool later that day."He said several people had come forward with helpful information that will help police track the vehicle's movements. "This is in response to our appeals and we are grateful for their assistance," he said.While police work continues in Shropshire, a team of West Mercia detectives has travelled to Gloucestershire to make further inquiries, including speaking to family members.The children's mother, Ruth Fuller, 34, was seen outside the couple's pebble-dashed house after the four vanished.Next-door neighbour Peter Ayres said: "The last time I saw the wife was on Thursday morning. She was pacing up and down the road. I thought she might be waiting for someone. I'd never noticed any odd behaviour before."The two schools that the three children attended paid tribute to the youngsters.Jan Wagstaff, the headteacher of St John's Church of England primary, said: "Rebecca and Charlotte were absolutely delightful children and a pleasure to have in school. Sam was also a pupil here before he moved on to Lakers.He was a lot of fun and always had a ready smile. They will all be very sadly missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with their family."Alison Elliott, the head of Lakers School, said: "We are desperately sad to hear the family are having to face such a dreadful situation. Sam was a well-loved member of our extended family here at Lakers. Our thoughts are with the family at this very tragic time. We have arrangements in place to support students, staff, friends and family at this very difficult time."