The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday April 16 2007In the leader below we made the observation that London's elected mayor has used his control of the budget to shake up the Met for the better. To clarify, the mayor has control of around one fifth of the overall policing budget. The Metropolitan Police Authority has control of the rest.For a decade, public service reform has dominated politics but the police have been let off with little more than a mild caution. In policing there has been no equivalent of foundation hospitals or academies. And one reform that was proposed - mergers between forces - bit the dust last year. The relative quiet may not be a bad thing, if the service works. But the public have their doubts about that, as a Guardian/ICM poll showed earlier this year. There is a suspicion that the men and women in uniform are not being made to deliver as they should. Politicians of all shades get an easy cheer at party conferences when they propose to increase the number of police officers. Reforming the service risks awkward rows.The Conservative party, which scents open political ground, yesterday issued a hefty policy paper proposing change. The party argues that the link between police and the communities they serve is weaker than ever before. There is truth to this, but the reality is that quiet steps are already being taken to strengthen the bond. In London, for example, safer neighbourhood teams now mean each ward has its own named police and support officers. But the police remain something of a world apart, and public control over personnel and procedure is virtually non-existent. The Conservative answer (though it is not new) is to bring in directly elected police commissioners.The idea is inspired by American practice, which raises immediate questions about whether it could successfully transplant here. Without US-style delegation of tax-raising powers to the local level - which the Conservatives are yet to show much appetite for - forces may be left with new responsibilities without the ability to raise the money to pay for them. The extraordinary demographic mix in some British neighbourhoods - especially ones where pressures on policing are most acute - might make winner-takes-all elections a crude way to resolve tensions. But whatever the impracticalities of direct elections, the present structure of minimal public involvement is not working. London's elected mayor has used his control of the budget to shake up the Met for the better. There are lessons in that.Many slogans in the Tory report - more bobbies on the beat, less red tape - have been heard before, not least from Labour ministers. The report rightly blames much of the form-filling and time-wasting on the failure of police computers to talk each other. The trouble is that an overhaul to put that right will cost cash, at least at first. And no party, especially one searching for tax cuts, can offer that easily. Policing may be new to the limelight, but, on this point at least, the terms of the argument are familiar.