Two women have been sent to prison for a year each after a pensioner was mauled to death by their dog.The retired hospital porter Clifford Clarke, 79, was attacked in his garden in Liverpool after he opened his back door while cooking a meal. The Presa Canario cross-breed dog had earlier escaped from the garden of his next-door neighbour in the Norris Green area of the city.Last month, Hayley Sulley, 30, and Della Woods, 29, of Norris Green, pleaded guilty to an offence under the Dangerous Dogs Act of allowing a dog to enter a place where it was not allowed to be and where it injured a person.On Tuesday, both women wept in the dock at Liverpool crown court as Judge Mark Brown told them Clarke's death had been "entirely avoidable". Both defendants had left the dog, Charlie, unattended in the garden on a hot day last May without water and shade while they went to a barbecue.Both women, who are in a relationship, were told by the judge that they were fortunate not to have been charged with manslaughter. He said the maximum sentence he could pass was two years. New laws have been brought in since the fatal attack to increase the maximum term to 14 years but the judge said that could not be applied retrospectively.Brown said: "I hope that the recent changes to the law will be of some small comfort to Mr Clarke's family."Figures released recently show that the number of dangerous dogs seized by the police has risen 50% in just two years in some police forces around the country."The court heard that the "wild" and "out of control" Presa Canario sank its teeth into Clarke's arm and dragged him around his garden. The dog in effect chewed one arm off and also mauled his other arm. Clarke died from multiple injuries and blood loss.Neighbours were unable to get into the garden to help him. One neighbour rang for a dog warden but was told there was a four-hour wait. The dog attacked police officers when they arrived on the scene and they were forced to attempt to distract it before an armed unit arrived.A marksman had to shoot the dog twice after it continued to approach following the first strike, the court was told.Eric Lamb, prosecuting, said the Presa Canario entered the gap through a gap in the fence. He said Clarke was "something of an athlete in his younger days" but more recently had two hip replacements and suffered from diabetes and arthritis.On the night before his death, he celebrated his birthday at his local pub and was in good spirits, said the prosecutor. At about 6.30pm a neighbour saw Charlie and another of the defendants' three dogs, Gypsy, in Clarke's garden and said he was "glad he had a hatchet with him to protect himself, such was the conduct of the dogs in the garden".Later both dogs ran up to a conservatory on a house backing on to Clarke's property. Lamb said: "The dogs were jumping up at the window. Charlie was foaming at the mouth. "Both of the dogs appeared very hungry."He said they were seen eating bird food and dirty water from a bowl containing cigarette butts. The court heard that at about 8.30pm another neighbour, Michael Rankin, heard a shout of "Get off me".Lamb said: "He ran out and he saw Cliff Clarke lying down and the dog pulling his arm off. "Mr Rankin ran back in and with great presence of mind he called the police."He returned with a golf club and was straddling the fence when the call operator told him not to cross into the garden for his own safety. Lamb said: "He described it as the dog was basically eating Charlie's arm and it had a go at his other arm." Another witness compared it to watching "a horror film".He and other neighbours stood by helpless as the police arrived 15 minutes later but they too were unable to assist initally. The dog jumped up at the 6ft wooden fence when armed officers attended and bit the end of a rifle.Lamb said: "The dog was so aggressive that after it was shot once, the dog got up and was shot again for a second time."He said Clarke, who was said to have served in the armed forces, was taken to hospital but never regained consciousness. His left arm had been amputated from the elbow while his right arm was said to be "hanging by a thread".There were also numerous wounds to his head and body.Both defendants came home and were arrested. One of them said they had fed the dogs that afternoon but Lamb said the findings of a postmortem examination contradicted that. It was discovered that Charlie had not been fed for at least 45 hours. Clarke's brother Kenny sat in the public gallery as the facts of the case were outlined.In his victim impact statement, he said the family was devastated and he had lost 3 stone in weight since the death of his brother, whom he described as a gentleman. Clarke said in his statement: "My brother did not deserve this. It must have been the most horrific death in peacetime. While we cannot bring my brother back, I think we should make sure this should not happen again."Teresa Loftus, defending mother-of-two Sulley, said the dog had not been the subject of previous complaints and she had considered the animal to be "a loving family pet". She said: "These proceedings have had a significant effect on this woman. She is someone who is coming to terms with the magnitude of what happened that day."It is something that weighs heavily upon her. She is receiving considerable mental health support for the first time in her life."Simon Driver, representing mother-of-one Woods, said her earlier guilty plea was "a solid foundation for her expression of remorse and contrition".Both were banned from keeping dogs for life.