Sir Ian Blair will be asked to justify Scotland Yard's procedures in murder investigations amid claims that the force is employing a two-tiered approach. Senior figures on the Metropolitan Police Authority have told the Guardian that they will seek assurances from the commissioner that all murders are being treated with equal importance, regardless of race or class.Sir Ian plunged his commissionership into fresh controversy last week as he defended the Yard's procedures and highlighted instead the way the media cover murders involving Londoners of different races. He compared the coverage of the murder of Tom ap Rhys Price, the 31-year-old City lawyer stabbed to death by muggers in Kensal Green, north London, with the coverage of Balbir Matharu, a 54-year-old Asian builder who was run over and dragged for 40 yards after he tried to stop robbers breaking into his van at Stratford, east London.But MPA members want an explanation of the resources the Yard itself diverted towards the Rhys Price murder, compared with other cases at the time. They also want to ask Sir Ian whether social class or geography have a bearing, and whether any political influence was brought to bear in the Rhys Price case. Scotland Yard denies this. Two teenagers have been charged with the lawyer's murder.Len Duvall, the MPA chair, said: "We have to tackle the perception that not everyone gets the same service." Recently minority community activists sought to compare the high public profile accorded to the murder of 18-year-old model Sally Anne Bowman in Croydon, south London, with the less well known case of 15-year-old Rochelle Holness, a black girl murdered around the same time in Catford, south-east London. A suspect has been charged with Rochelle's murder while Sally Anne's assailant is still being sought.Detectives seek to use the media to generate interest in a case but senior officers are loathe to let the media dictate to them the size or strategy required for an investigation. "We pull out all the stops on every murder," said one yesterday.Nevertheless, the 400 registered murders on file within Scotland Yard fall within three categories. Category C cases are those where the defendant would be easily identifiable, while category B cases are deemed more difficult. Category A murders may have wider public implications or other circumstances such as the age of the victim. All cases and categorisations are subject to review.But after a torrid 10 days for Sir Ian, who has endured public criticism and calls from MP's for his resignation, supporters of the commissioner believe his position has stabilised. Mr Duvall said: "We know there will be other bushfires but it is our job now to minimise them and to not be distracted from the key improvements we are making to the service."He said change in the way the Met fights terrorism and relates to communities will transform the force over the next three years, adding: "We fully expect Sir Ian to lead those changes."