A promising teenage footballer described as a role model for his community may have been murdered in a fight over a girl.Junior Nkwelle, 15, was stabbed to death outside a block of flats in south London on Thursday night. Officers were called to a disturbance on the Loughborough Estate in Brixton and found the boy with serious stab wounds. He was pronounced dead at the scene.Police said the killing was not believed to be gang-related. One theory being explored is that he may have been attacked by a jealous boyfriend.A 14-year-old girl has been arrested on suspicion of murder.Local people were shocked by the death as they gathered around floral tributes placed outside Secker House in Minet Road.One card on a tribute said: "Dear Junior, You was a good friend, a great footballer and a great person. Justice will happen. I promise!"Another said: "If football be the food of love 'Play on'. RIP young fella."Solomon Smith, 27, a youth support worker at Marcus Lipton youth centre a few yards from the scene, said: "He was one of our locals, and had been coming here for about two years. He was a very good footballer. When he came in, he always played football indoors here. He was a very quiet guy. You wouldn't think anything like this would happen to him."When we left here at 8pm last night, we heard a lot of commotion outside. The youngsters are saying that Junior might have been trying to flirt with a girl, who said 'my boyfriend's from Peckham and he's coming down'. There was a fight and Junior was stabbed. From about 9.30pm, I was getting told that he'd died."Because it's Brixton, and there's blocks of flats, you get gang troubles round here. There's been gang wars with guys from Stockwell and Tulse Hill, and that's what we are trying to tackle."A Metropolitan police spokesman said the dead boy was from the Loughborough Estate and that his next of kin had been informed. A postmortem examination was carried out on Friday night at Greenwich mortuary.Lambeth-based detectives, together with officers from the homicide and serious crime command, are investigating.Faith Marriott, 30, who lives locally, said: "I empathise with his mum. He used to coach my son at football. So what does that say about him – that he's only 14, and wants to coach little ones. He was a friendly boy; he wasn't in a gang."Her friend Dawn Pusey, 45, a mother of five, said: "It's sad that the youths are thinking about killing each other instead of their education."An incident room was opened under the control of Detective Chief Inspector Charles King, who said: "We would appeal for anyone who has any information or witnesses to come forward as soon as possible."Anyone able to assist the inquiry was urged to call detectives on 020 8721 4054 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.