Last night I was interviewed on BBC Radio 4's The World Tonight about the difference in the scale of media coverage following the disappearances of Madeleine McCann and Shannon Matthews. As so often with live broadcasts, the discussion was unsatisfying because it was too brief.However, I'm not quite certain whether I was on the right lines or not. First, the evidence, most of which was highlighted by an excellent Independent on Sunday article, Missing: The contrasting searches for Shannon and Madeleine. Coverage across all media, especially newspapers, has been noticeably less for nine-year-old Shannon than four-year-old Madeleine. Within two weeks of Madeleine's disappearance the rewards totalled £2.6m while those for Shannon amount to £25,500 (including £20,000 from The Sun).Footballers, celebrities and high-profile businessmen offered public support to Madeleine's parents. With the exception of Leona Lewis, celebrities have not rushed to assist Shannon's parents. Public donations for Madeleine reached £1.1m within two weeks. Those for Shannon amount to "thousands at best."The Sun is the single paper to have covered the story with a measure of prominence and persistence. It splashes it again this morning, though with a negative angle. And, as the Sindy reported, even The Sun's support has caused a some disappointment. It quoted a neighbour who said he was "devastated" because the paper placed its Shannon poster on page 17 rather than the front page.So what's the reason for the differences? Here's my admittedly tentative view. Overarching everything is social class. Shannon comes from a council house in a deprived working class area of Dewsbury Moor, West Yorkshire. Her mother, Karen, has what one might call an unsympathetic domestic profile with seven children from five different fathers. In "respectable" working class eyes, she would be regarded as a member of the underclass and, by implication, the author of her own misfortunes.Unlike the supposedly middle class McCann family, with their "respectable" careers in medicine, Karen lacks eloquence. Neither she nor her daughter are photogenic. There are not "cute" pictures of the girl and no video of her. The absence of moving images is particularly important for TV coverage, of course. The repetition of clips of attractive victims of crime is a common feature of TV news bulletins.Though there appears to have been terrific local support for Shannon's family, there has been no national postering campaign. Of course, the disappearance occurred in England where, to be honest, young children do go missing without much publicity. The fact that Madeleine vanished in foreign parts also made a difference, raising deep-seated xenophobic fears among the millions of Britons who take foreign holidays.Who decides the scale of coverage? Editors, of course, drawing on news values that they find it acutely difficult to discuss openly because they are laced with prejudice, sometimes unconscious and, more often than not, overt. It is not quite as crude as deciding what sells, but there is little doubt that they interpret what their audience wants. In terms of crime, as countless examples have shown previously, they divine whether the majority of their readers and viewers will be sympathetic to the victim.The belief is that the audience must identify with the plight of the people involved. There is a hierarchy involved in choosing who gets most coverage.There are other factors, of course, stemming from Karen Matthews's background and social conditions. She does not have friends and relatives with media savvy, as the McCanns did. The Matthews family do not have the networking connections nor, of course, the finances. It will be said that they don't have the PR back-up either.In case commenters get carried away with that fact, and try to see it as significant, let me explain that the reason PRs initially got involved with the McCanns was due to the "spontaneous" media interest once the story broke. The British embassy supplied them with a PR to help them deal with journalists. The Matthews have not been subjected to anything like as much press interest.I concede that the McCanns eventually put their PR campaign on a professional footing, but that was not the case in the first two weeks.So there we have it. A nine-year-old girl goes missing and relatively little appears in print or on screen. A four-year-old girl goes missing and thousands of pages and hundreds of minutes of airtime are devoted to her in media across the world. Is it really, as I believe, all about social class?