The parents of murdered schoolboy Damilola Taylor today accused Conservative leader William Hague of using their son's death as a "political football".In a statement made through their family solicitor, Richard and Gloria Taylor said they were distressed by Mr Hague's comments in a speech last week and a newspaper article he wrote this weekend. Mr Hague prompted a storm of controversy after questioning home secretary Jack Straw's record on providing sufficient numbers of police officers for the kind of inner city area where Damilola was killed. He also criticised the Macpherson report into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence as eroding police morale.The Taylors' solicitor, Neil O'May, said: "This is a particularly difficult time for the family. They did not hear anything by way of condolences from Mr Hague after Damilola's death. "The first they knew of his views were the reports of his article and speeches in the media in the last few days. The use of their son's death as a political football has caused a great deal of distress. "They hope that their son's death will not be used by others in this way again."Mr Straw today again met teachers, parents and governors at Oliver Goldsmith primary school in Peckham, attended by Damilola Taylor, to discuss issues of child safety and how the community is coping with the schoolboy's tragic death.Emerging after a one-and-a-half hour meeting, Mr Straw said police in the area were 30 officers short, but he insisted their relationship with the community had improved since the Macpherson report. Mr Straw said: "The total number of police in the area is 770 and it should be 800. We want to see that increased. "But the issue is not only about numbers. It is about relationships between the police and local community. "I am in no doubt that as a result of the Lawrence inquiry and the lessons that the police are ready and willing to learn that relationships have improved between the police and local community." Referring to Mr Hague's comments over the weekend Mr Straw said: "I don't think Mr Hague has any point to make. This is not the moment to start trading figures about police numbers." But Mr Hague was backed by Ali Balli, the chairman of the local tenants' association in Peckham, south London, where Nigerian-born Damilola bled to death in a stairwell on November 27. Mr Balli said: "We have only got two police officers patrolling a one and a half mile area. I agree with Mr Hague's analysis that the number of police patrolling this area has contributed to the murder of Damilola Taylor. If there were more police on the beat in the area I don't think he would have been attacked." Mr Straw discounted Mr Balli's comments as "party political", saying he was a local Liberal Democrat activist.The prime minister's official spokesman renewed his attack on Mr Hague today. He said: "We have got no complaints about being pressed over police numbers at all, but politicians do have a responsibility to think. "The second point is they [the Conservatives] have yet to explain how they are going to fund everything. Until they can explain where they would find the money to fund extra police it leads us to the conclusion it's simply seeking to exploit a situation rather put forward an alternative. "Are we responsible for Sarah Payne? Are we responsible for the little boy who was stabbed in Littlehampton the other day? The people who are responsible for Damilola Taylor's death are the people who killed him. Politicians should think pretty carefully before diving in to on going murder investigations." The spokesman also repeated figures issued by the government last week that the numbers of arrests from stop and search incidents in London had only fallen from 2,609 in February 1999 to 2,224 in October this year, following the publication of the Macpherson report and that of those arrested 700 were of Afro-Caribbean origin in February last year and 694 in October. As criticism of Mr Hague's comments mounted, Conservative central office dismissed suggestions that sources close to shadow chancellor Michael Portillo had branded Mr Hague's speech on the Macpherson report a "disgrace". The transport and general workers' union general secretary, Bill Morris, accused Mr Hague of inflaming racial tensions - likening his comments on the Macpherson report on Thursday to Enoch Powell's infamous 'rivers of blood' speech. The former Tory prime minister, Sir Edward Heath, said Mr Hague had got himself into a "muddle". But Fred Broughton, chairman of the police federation, said he welcomed Mr Hague's effort to open a debate on the impact of the report. "The spirit, the confidence, the whole feeling of the police service has been affected in the last two years since the publication of Macpherson. That's absolutely true," said Mr Broughton.Related special reportsPolicing crime: More about the Damilola caseTories in oppositionRace in BritainMacpherson report: one year on Related stories18 December: Scorn for new Hague race claim17 December: Leader: racism that shames the opposition 16 December: John O'Farrell on Hague's race speech15 December: Anger as Hague is accused of playing the race cardUseful linksSource document: Where was Jack Straw when Damilola died? - William Hague, Daily TelegraphBackground: William Hague's speech on crime to the centre for policy studies The Stephen Lawrence Family CampaignPress release: Liberal elite has ruined police morale - Conservative party