Fourteen women who face legal bills of up to £15,000 each after the collapse of their sex assault claims against a gynaecologist were refused an order postponing payment in the high court yesterday.The women, who have no legal aid or insurance against costs, were among 59 who alleged Rodney Ledward sexually assaulted or raped them in various Kent hospitals over a 15-year period - allegations described by John Grace QC, counsel for the NHS trusts which employed him, as "inherently improbable". The women were all clients of one solicitor, Jane Loveday, whose practice has been taken over by the Law Society and who is under investigation by the professional body. One of her clients has alleged that her firm had "sexed up" an allegation of sexual assault into rape. Eight lead cases against Ledward's employers - East Kent Hospitals NHS Trust, Kent and Medway Health Authority and South-East London Health Authority - were due to be heard in January but were halted when legal aid was withdrawn. All the cases have now been dismissed, with the defence costs of the action standing at £700,925. Some of the women claimed they had been assaulted in the recovery room after hysterectomies. In some cases the NHS could prove the women had never even been seen by Ledward, according to Mr Grace. The women who were his patients continued to go back to him for treatment over the years he was allegedly assaulting them without making any complaints of sexual behaviour. The allegations were made only after he died in 2000. Many of the women alleging the assaults were among 92 women who received compensation for negligent surgery by Ledward, who was struck off the GMC for bungling 13 operations. The case cost the taxpayer more than £1m before it collapsed days before trial when the Legal Services Commission (LSC) withdrew funding, just before the women's QC delivered a report stating that the claims were unlikely to succeed. Had they succeeded, they would have cost the NHS £5m in compensation. Mrs Justice Hallett refused the women a "stay" on enforcement of the costs by the NHS. The 14 women are hoping to recoup their costs by suing Ms Loveday's firm for negligence, but had asked for deferment while their chances of success in getting that action off the ground are assessed. Ms Loveday, who was signed off sick last December, is insolvent but the firm has compulsory negligence cover. Jolyon Holden, a solicitor advocate given limited funding by the Law Society to advise on a possible negligence claim against the firm, told the judge: "We believe there was negligence by Jane Loveday." When Ms Loveday applied to the LSC for funding, she was not yet on the panel of solicitors accredited to handle clinical negligence claims. Mr Holden said the LSC had told her another solicitor would have to handle the cases, but "she wrote back, nevertheless, inviting them to fund her and that was precisely what they did". Mrs Justice Hallett said the NHS was entitled to its costs but added: "I urge the defendants to exercise considerable discretion in the enforcement of these orders. "There will be no benefit, as I'm sure they appreciate, in bankrupting any of the claimants." Mr Holden said his clients were "very disappointed" that the judge refused to grant the stay. He said they owed an average of £12,000.