A fourth suspect hunted in connection with the murder of British student Meredith Kercher was named yesterday by Italian police as Rudy Hermann Guede, 21, originally from Ivory Coast.An international warrant has been issued for Guede's arrest.Kercher, 21, was studying in the Italian city of Perugia, when on November 2 she was found with her throat cut. Police believe she was murdered after refusing to take part in a sex game, and have made three arrests, including the victim's flatmate Amanda Knox.Detectives began searching for a fourth person after finding fingerprints on a pillow and toilet paper in Kercher's flat which did not match those of the three in custody. Corriere della Sera said it did match a print, that of Guede, held in his file in the register of foreign residents at Perugia town hall.Knox, 20, her Italian boyfriend Raffaele Sollecito, 24, and bar owner Diya Lumumba, 37, are already in custody on suspicion of killing Kercher. All three deny any involvement in her death.La Repubblica reported that Guede had been briefly fostered in Perugia by a wealthy industrial family and worked at a rural bed and breakfast. He was rejected by his adoptive family because of his "rebellious" nature. Five years ago he was knifed during a fight over drugs, the newspaper said. He had moved to Milan, but returned to Perugia a few days before Kercher's death."Guede was a difficult type - spent a lot of money, told lies, and did not behave well," Simone Benedetti, a member of the adoptive family, told La Repubblica. "If I had to judge him, I would say he was a boy who could not take care of himself. But no way is he a murderer."Corriere della Sera reported that Guede regularly played basketball metres from the cottage which Kercher shared with Knox and two Italian women, and on the route that Kercher used to reach home on the night of her death.Lawyers for the suspects have expressed their hope a fourth arrest might lead to their release. A date for a fresh detention hearing is expected to be announced this week. Carlo Pacelli, Lumumba's lawyer, said: "I'm convinced this is an open case." Lumumba has maintained he was at his pub and not in Kercher's apartment on the night of the murder, and his lawyer said he hoped the hearing would confirm his innocence. Sollecito's lawyer, Tiziano Tedeschi, described the pillowcase lead as "good news". He said: "This is the first suspect, not the fourth. They [prosecutors] didn't want to find the truth - they wanted to close the case."