The hoodies of my youth were crows that plucked the eyes from young lambs. In the empty reaches of the Highlands, nature knew how to inspire fear when it slung a grey tabard around the hooded crow and shrouded its head in black.It's an image that works well enough for the gangs of scavenging youths now supposed to roam our streets and shopping malls, picking on the weak and vulnerable. It's the image presented by Kent's Bluewater shopping centre and backed up by Tony Blair and his deputy, John Prescott.What's more difficult to imagine is Prescott as the lamb, although that's how he presented it on Today : 'A kid said something to me and I said, "What did you say, lad?", and he went off and came back with about 10 people... the fact that they go around with these hats and these covers... it is intimidating.' One of the curious discoveries of growing up in a wilderness was a realisation of how observed I was. The land might have seemed empty, but there was nearly always someone there. As a child, I paid the price for my crimes on several occasions, having been watched from another hillside. Children in the city used to have more anonymity. Get out of the neighbourhood and they would be among strangers. I used to envy this. All the random violence, mockery and embarrassment that comes with being a teenager could be endured out of sight of those who knew you. This has changed. Now, every act, every move, is watched by CCTV. Nothing is secret. This should make the rest of us feel safer from random acts of violence. Yet in February, a Home Office study of 13 areas in which CCTV was used showed that in only one place had crime been reduced. The problems were with the operators and the systems used rather than the cameras themselves, but that's not really a comfort. And the truth is that the moment a group turns nasty, it makes little difference if their faces are covered or not. While it's fun to laugh at the Prime Minister's 'total sympathy' with Bluewater, there's something creepy about his response. It shows a lack of subtlety more in keeping with a retired colonel than a social reformer. I remember scoffing when I read, in Edinburgh's Evening News, of a 'terror gang' operating in a famously affluent area of the city. Yet I was devaluing the horror of youth violence that faces the vulnerable in deprived areas every day. The British government and the Scottish Executive are right to target this. Youth violence is most terrifying for other teenagers, who suffer from it more than any other part of society. If I were a teenager now, I would certainly wrap myself in a hood and slope through the city, hoping not to be noticed. When wedded to all that angst, all that insecurity, the urge to hide oneself away must be all the greater. It's impossible, though. There are four million cameras watching us move across the UK. Unless the Labour rebels derail the plans, there will soon be ID cards. For most of us - the adult, responsible, voting members of society - these measures are acceptable as protection. We have nothing to fear, secure in the knowledge of our rights and our ability to stand up to intimidation. Bluewater wants to provide a sterile, family-friendly environment for us. Who can argue with its right as a sterile, family-friendly corporation? Let's not fool ourselves, though, and think that Blair's belief that people should show their faces will make our streets any safer. The intimidation has always been there, and it will remain until the ills of society are tackled and beaten. This attack on hoods and baseball caps comes because teenagers have discovered a hiding place. For the moralists of New Labour, that is intolerable.