Two brothers who murdered a marketing manager on Christmas Eve using chloroform have both been jailed for at least 30 years.Cash-and-carry boss Roger Cooper, 41, and ex-army reservist David Cooper, 39, were convicted on Tuesday of killing Sameena Imam, whose body was buried on an allotment.Jailing the killers for life at Birmingham crown court, Judge Patrick Thomas QC told the siblings: “The use of a poison in a case such as this demonstrates a cold-blooded intention to kill, regardless of the consequences.“You worked together, hand in glove, in planning and carrying out the murder of a joyful and bubbly young woman, brutally betrayed by a man she loved and his brother.”The 34-year-old victim, who was having an affair with colleague Roger Cooper, was lured to her death with the promise of a two-night stay at Birmingham’s Malmaison hotel.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Roger (right) and David Cooper. Photograph: West Midlands Police/PABut instead of being driven to Birmingham from Coventry’s Costco warehouse, where Roger Cooper was the store manager, Imam was instead “delivered to her death” at David Cooper’s home in Leicester. Roger Cooper, who lived in Coventry, wanted Imam “out of his life” to prevent his long-term partner finding out about his affairs with her and another female colleague at Costco. Imam is thought to have been smothered with chloroform, which was bought online, minutes after arriving in Leicester at about 5pm on 24 December. Ordering both brothers to serve at least 30 years before they can even be considered for parole, Thomas said: “Poisoning cases are, demonstrably, very rare. “Historically allegations of murder by poison were treated with such seriousness that they were almost invariably prosecuted by the attorney general in person.” The judge, who was told the plot to kill Imam began in early December, said of the offence: “It was a long-planned deliberate murder of a young woman whose misfortune it was to have fallen in love with you, Roger Cooper. “You killed a bright, selfless, ambitious, hard-working and life-loving woman – a daughter, a sister and an aunt – because that fact was inconvenient to you. “You, Roger Cooper, took her to Leicester, to your brother’s house. Exactly what happened there you know, and no one else does. But I am satisfied that hardly had she entered the house that you two tall, strong men held her helpless while one of you administered chloroform, probably in a cloth to her face.” An eight-week trial heard that a bottle of Bellini that Imam bought in Coventry to share with Roger Cooper at the hotel was found at his brother’s home. Police search teams found Imam’s body hidden in a shallow grave on David Cooper’s allotment in Leicester on 16 January.