Prisoners who win the lottery or become financially better off could lose some of their money to compensate the victims of their crimes under legislation proposed by the home secretary, David Blunkett.In the wake of the £7m national lottery win by the rapist Iorworth Hoare, Mr Blunkett said that a consultation paper published earlier this year had outlined plans for the government to recover compensation if an offender won the lottery. It also said that every convicted criminal would pay into a victims' fund if their financial circumstances changed for the better. "This is not a kneejerk reaction to what has happened. Caring for - and compensating - victims of crime is already at the heart of Home Office work," he said. "I will be talking to the Lottery Commission and cabinet colleagues to see if we can stop this happening again. "And I want to find out if a substantial slice of winnings like these can go into the victims' fund," he writes in today's Sun. A Home Office spokesman said: "This proposal was widely backed and the government is now taking this forward in the domestic violence, crime and victims bill currently before parliament." Prison reformers said yesterday that Home Office fears of a tabloid backlash might have prompted the decision to move Hoare from an open regime to a high-security category B prison. Hoare, who was given a life sentence in 1989 for raping a retired schoolteacher after serving four separate jail terms for indecent assault and attempted rape, was spending weekends at a bail hostel in Middlesbrough. He is due to be considered for parole shortly. Leyhill, the category D jail in Gloucestershire where he spent weekdays before his transfer, is an open prison designed to help long-term prisoners prepare for release. The 52-year-old was described as a menace to women by the judge who sentenced him 15 years ago, Mr Justice Rougier. "Every moment you are at liberty some woman is at risk," the judge told him. Hoare is reported to have boasted to a fellow inmate at Leyhill that he was "sound for the rest of my life" with the proceeds of his win. The Prison Service declined to say in which category B jail Hoare is being held. A spokesman said the decision to move him followed a "very rigorous" risk assessment. "If someone comes into £7m, you automatically look at it again. If we didn't follow procedure and he decided to disappear, someone might lose their job." But Simon Creighton, a solicitor who specialises in prison law and has defended a number of high-profile criminals, said that unless Hoare feared for his safety, returning him to a category B jail amounted to a gross overreaction. "Coming into money like this would help facilitate his release," he said. "It would be so counterproductive for him to abscond." Long-serving prisoners who were released straight from a category B jail "found it very hard to adapt to life outside", Mr Creighton added. Enver Solomon of the Prison Reform Trust said Hoare had broken no rules by buying a lottery ticket. "He was given the toughest punishment available. He is being targeted by people who think prisoners remain lesser beings." An inmate at Leyhill said Hoare was "a timid man who was frequently bullied", but there is no suggestion he was in danger. His brother, Rhys Owen, said he hoped the winnings would enable him to "sort himself out". "What my brother did was inexcusable. But he won the lottery and good luck to him ... Hopefully it will keep him on the straight and narrow." Criminal law experts say his victims may decide to sue Hoare for a share of his winnings. Julie Bindel, a campaigner on violence against women, said Hoare should donate his winnings to rape crisis charities.