Cherie Blair will tackle the plight of children in custody this week in her first public speaking engagement since the Peter Foster scandal.The Prime Minister's barrister wife, who believes too many children are held behind bars, will use a lecture on human rights law to confront the sensitive issue. Home Office figures published last week show the number of children in custody has almost doubled in a decade, from 1,328 in 1992 to 2,609 by last year. A recent report from the Chief Inspector of Prisons described the conditions in which some were held as 'institutionalised child abuse'. Known professionally as Cherie Booth QC, Mrs Blair will also cover exclusions from school - another political hot potato. More than four in 10 young offenders have previously been expelled from school. 'She has both a legal and a humanitarian concern for the treatment of young offenders,' said Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform. Home Secretary David Blunkett is known to be exploring alternatives to jailing teenagers, including a form of secure fostering where specially trained foster parents would work intensively with children in trouble. How ever, children's charities are sceptical over whether foster parents would be prepared to hold youngsters under virtual house arrest. Since the election Booth, who once fought shy of straying on to political territory, has become more confident in expressing her views. She made a ground-breaking speech on prison reform last summer, calling in particular for more alternatives to custody. For her only speaking engagement at the Labour Party conference last autumn, she chose to support an inquiry into the treatment of women offenders. Booth has not spoken publicly since the debacle last year surrounding her decision to let convicted conman Peter Foster, the boyfriend of her style guru Carole Caplin, organise the purchase for the Blairs of two flats in Bristol. This week's lecture is part of a series by senior figures in the law, including the barrister and Labour peer Baroness Kennedy, and will be to an invited audience only. Prison reformers recently won a landmark court ruling that children in prison should have the same protection against abusive treatment as children in care. But they failed to secure a ruling that the Prison Service was responsible for enforcing those rights, leaving a confusion which they are now pushing Ministers to resolve. Booth's interventions in policy issues have sometimes made her Downing Street minders uncomfortable - her husband's former aide Anji Hunter, who has now left for the private sector, is said to have been particularly adamant that she should stay out of politics - but this week's venture, organised by the British Institute of Human Rights, suggests she is remarkably undaunted. A recent United Nations report criticised the locking up of under-18s in Britain.