The British armed forces is one of the last truly great institutions of our country. That a young soldier, unarmed, alone and walking in his own country, could be attacked and killed is profoundly shocking. This atrocity in Woolwich is an attack on all of us and it is act of treasonous proportions. I have spoken with former colleagues from the Army, veterans, community leaders and politicians – and we are all united in standing against this cowardly murder.I feel passionately about this: I am a British Muslim, a former British army officer and a prospective British parliamentarian. I have spent the past 11 years in the British army serving in the UK, Germany, Iraq and three tours of Afghanistan. I have worked with thousands of service personnel and hundreds of Nato colleagues. In all this time, during a decade in the war on terror, I have seen outstanding teamwork, brotherhood and compassion within the armed forces. Hundreds of British military personnel are Muslim. They work, live, play and fight alongside the majority Christian personnel and also many other faiths as one cohesive, effective team.As we witness this brutality in Woolwich, more than 600 Muslim personnel are deployed in Afghanistan, Mali, Somalia and elsewhere, contributing to our collective security. This attack is not connected to them, nor the armed forces, who have helped so many Muslims in Iraq and Afghanistan – two theatres in which the principal beneficiaries of military intervention have been Muslim civilians and their governments. This attack is an aberration and completely condemned by all. There are those who seek to divide our united communities and sow discord and strife; they have shown their true colours by attacking police and property. We must not let the extremists in this debate divide us. We are one country, we are the majority, we are right and we will never give in to these fringe expressions of hatred and barbarity.In the past 24 hours the prime minister and senior members of the government have shown immense strength and robust leadership at this difficult time. All Muslim community leaders and organisations have quickly moved to show, as Britons, that they are standing up to hatred and criminality. It is too early to know exactly what motivated this attack, but what is absolutely clear is that we are one country, we are united and we will not allow ourselves to become divided by extremists.The ranting attempt by one of the alleged attackers to justify this crime should not be accepted at face value, the underlying analysis he presents is completely wrong and it is utterly against the values of Islam. The first person in history to formally prohibit the killing of innocents and non-combatants was the prophet Muhammad. The 3 million British Muslims who live day by day in near-perfect harmony in our country are the real face of Islam; teachers, doctors, underground workers, politicians, soldiers and in every other profession living and contributing to our collective wellbeing.The coming weeks and months will reveal much of what lies behind this single act of barbarism and I remain confident that community cohesion will endure, that the unity of the members of the armed forces will only increase, and that we as a country will continue to stand defiantly and valiantly against all forms of hatred and extremism.• Comments have been removed for legal reasons