Thai police have relaunched the hunt to catch the killer of Kirsty Jones, the British backpacker who was raped and murdered in the country five years ago.The case of the 23-year-old, who was strangled in a Chiang Mai guesthouse, had been abandoned by the authorities. But it has emerged that the Thai attorney-general has chosen a team of senior detectives to lead a new murder hunt, following claims that the earlier investigation was bungled. British police officers, who have been in contact with their Thai counterparts, said the case will be, in effect, 'starting from scratch'.Witnesses are to be re-interviewed and their accounts re-examined after a genetic profile revealed that, contrary to earlier claims that Kirsty's killer was a foreigner, the chief suspect is a local man from a northern Thai city. The case is thought to have gained fresh impetus since it was raised by Tony Blair during a meeting with Thailand's Prime Minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, in October.Detective Superintendent Steve Wilkins of Dyfed-Powys Police, who was in close contact with Thai detectives last week, said he had never felt more certain that Kirsty's killer might be brought to justice. 'They are re-interviewing a number of witnesses,' he said. 'There is no reason why we can't get the killer.'Kirsty's mother, Sue, from Brecon, Powys, said: 'You have to hope that some day, sooner rather than later, whoever is responsible will be caught.' She said she had recently sent a card to Elizabeth Horton, the mother of Katherine, 21, who this month was raped and murdered on Koh Samui. In an apparent attempt to avoid execution, two Thai fishermen have admitted murdering the student from Cardiff. 'Obviously there is relief for them, as far as it may give some sort of closure, but it won't change the situation,' Mrs Jones said. 'It is important to remember that what happened to Kirsty and Katherine could have happened anywhere.'Kirsty was three months into a two-year round-the-world trip when she was murdered in the Aree guesthouse in Chiang Mai in August 2000. She had recently graduated from Liverpool University and had travelled to meet her friend in Thailand. Initially, the police investigation focused on five foreigners. They were cleared by DNA tests and the inquiry closed amid allegations police officers were involved in the incident.The list of witnesses to be re-interviewed does not include Andrew Gill, the British co-owner of the guesthouse who was charged and later cleared of raping and conspiring to murder Kirsty. The DNA profile put together by Dyfed-Powys Police and Thai experts is based on skin and semen samples taken from the murder scene. Wilkins said:'The profile is of south east Asian origin.'