An experiment in buying more "bobbies on the beat" for a city suburb has proved an expensive flop, according to independent monitors who watched it collapse a year early.Officers were changed regularly, there was a lack of accountability and the new officers were often called to help in other parts of the force's area, undermining the £50,000 scheme, a report concludes. The failure at New Earswick, York, was also damaging in terms of raised expectations in around 1,000 households, which were dashed with an awareness of security and fear of crime. After the failure of the extra policing a private security firm was hired and closed circuit TV installed in the "model village", originally built by Joseph Rowntree, the Quaker philanthropist. The debacle carries fundamental lessons for current calls for more local policing, according to academics at Leeds University who monitored the experiment for the Joseph Rowntree Foundation (JRF), which owns the village. One of the monitors, Professor Adam Crawford, said it illustrated starkly the gap between "the heightened expectations of local people and what the police are actually able to deliver". The foundation contracted to pay North Yorkshire police £25,000 a year in 2000 for a three year trial of an extra 24 hours' policing a week in New Earswick. Jacquie Dale, community services manager for the JRF, said: "Residents wanted to see more bobbies on the beat. They wanted to feel secure in the knowledge that if a crime or anti-social behaviour occurred, the community police officer would quickly know what was going on. Such fond hopes vanished as three successive constables managed the extra policing in the first 18 months instead of the one people thought would do the job. "The problem was compounded when each was called away to deal with other North Yorkshire emergencies. Sick leave, holidays and training also disrupted any continuity, leaving local people frustrated and disillusioned. Prof Crawford of Leeds Centre for Criminal Studies, co-author of the report, said the project was doomed by the absence of detailed scrutiny and discussion of what the police could realistically provide. The report shows that crime was not a serious problem in New Earswick before the experiment, which saw levels drop by 5% in the first year but then almost double in the second. The report shows a more disturbing, although small, rise in people scared to go out after dark, and an increase in dissatisfaction with local policing from 30% to 40%. Prof Crawford and his co-authors, Stuart Lister and David Wall, also found that the officers "bought" by New Earswick remained almost entirely accountable only to North Yorkshire police. "We wholeheartedly supported the idea of community policing to combat nuisance crime and help alleviate the fear of crime," said Geoff Bunce, chairman of the New Earswick residents' forum, which helps the JRF and York city councillors run village affairs. "Unfortunately the policy did not live up to expectations. I was one of a group who recommended terminating the experiment but I still believe we can keep New Earswick a safe place to live and work with help from a number of agencies, police included."