Maxine Carr is to be brought back to court this month to face deception charges, it was announced yesterday.She faces accusations of lying about her qualifications when she applied for jobs at the school attended by the murder victims Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, and of making false benefit claims. The appearance by the Soham killer Ian Huntley's former girlfriend at Peterborough magistrates on March 26 is bound to cause another media frenzy. There will also be concerns over a possible repeat of the scenes which greeted her when she last appeared at the court shortly after her arrest in 2002. The jeering and heckling from the crowds resulted in her being excused attending a later hearing. She was allowed to "appear" via a video link. The Crown Prosecution Service's decision is a further blow to Carr, whose application to be released from her three-and-a-half year sentence for conspiring to pervert the course of justice by lying for Huntley after the murder of the girls prompted the government to make changes to its early release scheme. She is now eligible for release in mid-May. After her jailing in December it had been expected that other alleged offences which had been discovered would be quietly forgotten. But prosecution sources said CPS lawyers had reviewed the evidence and, upon advice from counsel, decided to prosecute. Carr is accused of falsely representing her qualifications in applications for the jobs at St Andrew's primary school in Soham in April and July 2002. She got the first job - a temporary post - but was rejected for the second. She allegedly lied on three other applications, for jobs at the Blue Crest food factory in Grimsby in 1996, at Bhs in Scunthorpe in 2001, and at a store in Soham in 2002. Carr is also accused of dishonestly obtaining £375 of housing benefit in Scunthorpe in 2001 by claiming she was not living with a partner. At that time she was living with Huntley. She also allegedly made dishonest claims for jobseeker's allowance and income support. She faces 12 charges. The announcement coincided with the appearance of the chief constable of Cambridgeshire, Tom Lloyd, at the Bichard inquiry, which is examining how Huntley got a job as a school caretaker in Soham, even though he had been accused of sex offences. Mr Lloyd admitted that serious flaws within his force's vetting process may have allowed a number of "unsuitable" people to get jobs working close to children and said he had ordered an investigation which will assess how many potentially dangerous people could have slipped through the net. Mr Lloyd conceded that hundreds of mistakes might have been made by staff in the force's criminal record's bureau. Yesterday he admitted in public for the first time that it was "more likely than not" his force did not ask Humberside police to check Huntley, from the north-east, in their records. He also conceded that his force had made two further mistakes on Huntley's vetting. Firstly, a civilian member of his staff, Stephen Barnes, had incorrectly entered Huntley's date of birth into a database. More seriously, a second civilian operator, Jacqueline Giddings, had failed to check Huntley under both the surnames he used. Had she done so, she would have found he had committed a burglary. The inquiry was told she thought she might have been "distracted". The inquiry was told about a damning internal Cambridgeshire report by Detective Chief Inspector Gary Ingrey, who concluded there were "shortcomings in the supervision and management" of the force's criminal records bureau. The inquiry continues.