The Conservatives today questioned the government's commitment to tackling yob culture, claiming the government has "covertly" axed funding for community and neighbourhood wardens. The Labour government first introduced community wardens before the 2001 general election in a £93m package to tackle low level crime and the fear of crime. The Conservatives said that, four years on, only 38 of the 210 schemes are still funded by the government, with local authorities forced to pick up the tab to allow the remaining schemes to continue.The shadow local government and communities spokeswoman, Caroline Spelman, said the funding has been "covertly axed" by the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister (ODPM), leaving council tax payers to foot the bill. "Mr Blair's promises to reclaim the streets and restore respect in our communities are all talk," she said. "Before the last election, he pledged to treble funding for community wardens. Yet, four years on, four out of five warden schemes have had their funding axed. Local taxpayers have been left to pick up the bill. "Communities that want to keep their wardens and tackle yob behaviour will have to pay higher council taxes - on top of the soaring police levy on council tax bills."The government's own figures do not match the Conservative's audit of neighbourhood and community wardens, however.Figures released by John Prescott's department show government money kick-started 244 schemes since 2001 through neighbourhood renewal money. Of those, 173 schemes have continued to operate through local authority or housing association funding. Government funding for another 34 schemes will taper out by next March. This suggests 37 schemes have run into the ground because of lack of continued funding.A spokesman for the ODPM said the government made short-term funding available to help establish the schemes. "Government funding for warden schemes was only ever awarded on a short-term basis to allow schemes to become established, develop a track record and seek mainstreaming from local authorities and other sources," he said. "Local authorities are already committing themselves to continuing warden programmes, as shown by the large number of schemes which have successfully secured mainstream funding and those that have expanded. "The position on warden funding is in line with the government's drive to bring decision-making closer to local people."The Local Government Association refused to comment on the Tory claims because of their political nature.