The home secretary, David Blunkett, drew the sting from an angry Police Federation conference yesterday with startling admissions that he had made mistakes during months of negotiations over changes to the service that had created "enormous suspicion" among rank and file officers.Mr Blunkett's conciliatory tone in a speech that included a promise to increase police numbers year on year pacified 1,000 delegates from the federation, who slow handclapped and jeered his predecessor, Jack Straw, in less fraught circumstances last year. Mr Blunkett did not say sorry and insisted continuing reform was necessary. But his concession that he had tried to speed proposals on pay and conditions through too quickly was interpreted by federation leaders as a de facto apology for conduct that provoked a mass demonstration by officers in Westminster last March. Since then, the two sides have agreed a pay structure that has protected overtime payments - the most contentious issue. "If I get things wrong, it's on my head to say so. It's not often that the home secretary admits that they have got things wrong. I have learnt ... that sometimes there are better ways of getting where you want to be," he said. Referring to the rally, he said he had "listened most of all to those who sat down with me on the day and spoke carefully and quietly and reasonably about what they thought was wrong with the package". Mr Blunkett also said he wanted to draw a line under accusations that his officials were responsible for briefings to newspapers that had led to stories that labelled officers as malingerers, who "gave Spanish practices a bad name". The home secretary did not accept responsibility for the stories or apologise for them, but said pointedly: "The police are not idle or lazy and they are not good for nothing". He insisted he had not sought a fight with the police. The polite, unenthusiastic, applause from the floor of the conference in Bournemouth was as much as he could have hoped for following his introduction to delegates by Fred Broughton, the outgoing federation chairman. In a speech punctuated by ovations, Mr Broughton launched the latest in a series of attacks on Mr Blunkett, claiming he had turned reforming the police into "an issue of political virility". He went on: "We don't receive the political leadership our job requires. We get criticised in the press when bad managers are to blame. We get called union dinosaurs when we can't even go on strike. And, home secretary, you wonder why morale is so poor." He accused the home secretary of being driven by a "political desire to keep a few tabloid editors sweet" and said the "level of anger, frustration and bitterness in the service has been overwhelming." To muted applause, Mr Blunkett was led to the podium. "That felt like walking the plank," he said. Mr Blunkett chose safe themes close to the heart of the federation, which represents 120,000 junior officers in England and Wales. He said he wanted to review the criminal justice system, so that "unscrupulous lawyers" could not claim "pyrrhic victories" by securing acquittals on technicalities. He also pledged £140m for a complete review of the Metropolitan police's 999 system, which is regularly overwhelmed with calls. The federation steadfastly opposes introduction of community support officers, but Mr Blunkett hinted that the scheme, which is strongly supported by Scotland Yard, would be abandoned if it did not work. Later, Mr Broughton said he stood by his criticisms of the home secretary but admitted the conference had helped to "clear the air" between them. He added: "The last year has been difficult. I was expressing the feeling of police officers." Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said the home secretary's remarks amounted to "an unprecedented, grovelling apology", adding: "Police officers will give him a chance. He is now on probation."