The international police agency Interpol today launched an appeal for information about 26 fugitives.Interpol has been leading an international operation since May aimed at tracking down 450 particularly dangerous people, and has arrested 39 as a result.But of those still at large, 26 are causing especial concern. They are wanted for murder, human trafficking or child sex abuse. Several have British connections.It is the first time Interpol has sought the public's help to find so many suspects. The organisation, which links police forces in 186 countries, hopes that social networking sites will prove useful in the hunt.Many have been on the run for years. "When they first went missing there wasn't much on the internet," said Martin Cox, co-ordinator of the appeal.Cox cited one suspected American paedophile known to be involved in fantasy online gaming, and said Interpol hopes to track him down via other gamers.Many gamers, however, hide their real identities. And fellow gamers may not be eager to turn in a suspect."No matter how a member of the public has the information, we would ask that they pass it on," Cox said.Among those with a British connection are:• Commercial pilot Daren Elarmo, 40, who also uses the name Jones. He is wanted in the US by officers investigating the grooming of two boys via social networking sites between 2005 and 2008. Police said the pilot visited Britain last year, but may now be living in Spain, possibly among the expatriate community.• Romanian Ioan Clamparu, 41, is suspected of masterminding an international people-smuggling operation in which women were forced into prostitution in Spain. He has contacts in Britain and Ireland.• Pole Marcin Balcewicz, 29, known as Balas, is wanted for murdering a man with an iron bar in his homeland in 2006. He has not been seen since and may be on the run in Britain.• Former financial director Jason Holland, 42, may be hiding in the UK from South African police investigating a substantial 2008 fraud involving a mining company. He has joint British and South African nationality.• Briton Christopher More, 32, is wanted for murder and false imprisonment over the death of a man fatally beaten at a farmhouse in Cheshire in June 2003. He may be on the run in Spain.• Hungarian company director Janos Szpevak, 33, is thought to be hiding in Britain from police investigating a sophisticated financial fraud in his home country. He has also travelled to Belgium and Sweden.• Irishman John Griffin, 43, known as Fozzy, is wanted by police over the murder of a 23-year-old woman whose body was found in a burned-out caravan in Galway in April 2005. He may be in the UK after faking his death on a clifftop.The online appeal includes photos of suspects' tattoos, languages spoken, and facial hair preferences.The operation, which began in May, called Operation Infra-Red 2010, involved police from 29 countries working out of Interpol's headquarters in Lyon.It produced new travel details, fingerprints, photographs and other information on more than 300 of the suspects."What we are now left with are the cases where we have no new information on their whereabouts," Cox said.He said the appeal may just be the first of many by Interpol in its efforts to cast a wider net for suspects.