The Lord Chief Justice yesterday said that fewer convicted criminals should be sent to jail and that politicians should stop promising to lock more people up as a way of battling crime.The intervention in the heated law and order debate by Lord Woolf, the top criminal judge in England and Wales, set him on a collision course with William Hague. The Tory leader reacted by saying that under his party, more people may be jailed as a way of cutting crime. Home office minister Mike O'Brien said Lord Woolf had "slightly missed the point" and that the effectiveness of anti-crime policy should not be judged by the numbers of people in jail. In an interview, Lord Woolf said prison numbers, which are forecast to hit record numbers, were swollen by people who did not need to be behind bars. He called for more use of community sentences and described prison overcrowding as a "cancer" which hampered the rehabilitation of serious offenders.  Large rise  Lord Woolf said: "If a person has committed a serious crime, I am strongly in favour of the person receiving serious punishment. What I am equally in favour of is when he goes to prison to receive that serious punishment, the system works as well as is possible, having regard to all the constraints of resources, to ensure that when he comes out of prison he is less likely to offend again and not more likely to offend." The "prison works" doctrine espoused by the former Tory home secretary, Michael Howard, saw a large rise in the numbers behind bars. The Home Office predicts that the prison population will hit an all-time high of 68,300 by March 2002, from its current level of 62,229. Lord Woolf continued: "Overcrowding of prisons is a cancer which undermines the work of the prisons and the problem is we have people there because of the system who should not be there, who contribute to overcrowding. "What we have to do is to achieve a situation where our punishments in the community are ones which the public find more acceptable than they do at the present, because many things can be done so far as offenders are concerned without sending them to prison which actually provide better safeguards for the public." Lord Woolf likened tough talk from politicians on jailing more people to the "race card" and told the BBC: "On the whole the politicians are very good about race, they don't approve of playing what is called the race card. I wish that they also took the same view with regard to the prison card. I'm afraid they don't. "They do see prison as something which the public feels is an important safeguard and so they will be in favour of the rhetoric that they use of more and more prison, but that actually is not necessarily in the interests of the public." Tory leader William Hague has identified voters' concern about crime as a way of eating into Labour's opinion poll lead. Mr Hague said: "I think that it may be necessary to have more people in prison, in order to deal with the law and order situation in this country." Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe told the Guardian that Tory plans would see no more than "a couple of thousand" added to prison numbers. She said the private finance initiative could be used to fund extra prison places so that any rise did not exacerbate overcrowding. The prison population's peak (66,500) was reached under Labour in June 1998. In 1993 it was 44,246. Privately, the government is not worried by criticism from liberals over rising prisoner numbers, which are already some of the highest in the developed world. Mr O'Brien attacked Mr Hague's policy and appeared to criticise Lord Woolf's intervention: "In a sense he has slightly missed the point." Mr O'Brien continued: "He's got it back to front. It's not about the numbers, increasing or decreasing the numbers, its about locking up those who deserve to be there and having the capacity to do so." Both main parties believe that concern over crime, which has fallen by 10% since Labour took office, requires them to pay greater heed to talking tough rather than taking note of concerns from reformers. Mr O'Brien told the Guardian: "I've never had a constituent ask me to put less people in prison, unless it's one of their relatives."  Flawed  Those expressing concerns over the effectiveness of incarceration were supported by Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes, who said: "Given that half of all people released from prison reoffend within two years, the argument that prison is an effective deterrent is flawed." Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, accused Lord Woolf of "joining the liberal brigade".He said weak sentences passed by judges were partly to blame for high crime rates. "The reason there are many criminals in prison is that judges give out weak sentences that do not act as a deterrent. Many persistent offenders know that, if caught, they will receive a short sentence and see it as no more than a respite, an occupational hazard." The Prison Reform Trust said the public should be more confident in community penalties and prison must be kept as a last resort. Its director, Juliet Lyon, said: "A crowded prison cannot be effective, just or humane." Lord Woolf is no stranger to controversy. In October, he ruled that the continued detention of the killers of the toddler James Bulger would not serve any constructive purpose and that their release would be determined by a three-member panel comprising a judge, psychiatrist and lay member.