At playtime at Sunning Hill primary, white children yomping round the playground are outnumbered by pupils from families originally from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. Paul Read, head teacher for 10 years, wants to ensure that the children who grow up in the tolerant community he has created in a poorer part of Bolton, Greater Manchester, stay tolerant when they leave at the end of each day. He is a pragmatic man, with an ethnically diverse teaching and support staff and an approach to racism based on experience rather than theory. He sees ethnic divisions being blurred by inter-marriage and suggests religion can be more important as a defining factor than colour. 'Bits of paper cannot change people,' he said. 'It's mindsets that we have to address. We have to concentrate on what we can do here. We cannot change what goes on at home.'  Worried white parents have come into his office and said: 'Have you been teaching my kids that Paki language?' 'It's difficult to change attitudes given to children for more than four years before we see them. And we have them for only 25 hours a week,' said Janet Marland, Mr Read's deputy. More problems happened in the playground than in class, she said. 'When there is an argument during a football game, language can be used which has been ingrained in the children since they learned to speak.' So what if, in a fit of fury, one child called another a Paki? 'I immediately make it clear that it's unacceptable that one member of the school should use that kind of language to another. 'Quite often, children think Paki means someone with a brown skin who speaks another language. We have to explain the offensiveness of the term. 'If children respect a teacher, you are more likely to be able to check their behaviour, if not change their thought processes.' If problems continue Mr Read will call in a child's parents and make them aware of behaviour that will not be tolerated at school. Like many schools, Sunning Hill celebrates Christmas and Eid with parties which most children attend; there are assemblies of a broadly Muslim and a broadly Christian character; and children are free to opt out of RE lessons on religious grounds. Sunning Hill also has to follow the national curriculum, and the Lawrence report recommends it should be amended to stress the value of cultural diversity. Ms Marland suggests a start might be made with art, music and history.  For the moment, however, Mr Read treats Sir William Macpherson's ideas with some caution: he is wary of new form-filling and bureaucracy. Abeda Manjra, a teacher at the school, grew up in south Manchester and studied at Leicester and Leeds universities. She defines herself as a British, Indian, Muslim, Gujerati-speaking woman who on any day can feel any one of those characteritics more strongly than another. In the classroom there can be petty feuds and name calling, and white children can be on the receiving end of racism from Asian children. Ms Manjra takes the same pragmatic line as the head. 'The process has to start in the home. I feel I have made an impression with some children. They will go home and perhaps make a difference there. But sometimes we feel as if we are educating parents as much as their children.'