A serial sex attacker who killed a woman just nine months after being released on parole was "too dangerous to be released in the first place", an official report said today.The report on Anthony Rice's murder of Naomi Bryant is the latest in a series examining why criminals have been allowed to kill while on parole.Rice, 48, killed Ms Bryant, a 40-year-old mother of one, after being released from a 16-year sentence for rape, indecent assault and actual bodily harm.Today's report by the chief inspector of probation, Andrew Bridges, said there were "substantial deficiencies" in the way Rice was supervised by probation and other officials in Hampshire before the killing. Rice strangled and stabbed Ms Bryant at her home in Winchester, Hampshire, in August last year. The killing happened only days after they had met. He had been staying on licence at a charity-run hostel near the town and was under Multi Agency Public Protection Arrangements (MAPPA) intended to ensure he was subject to close supervision.But Mr Bridges said there had been a "succession of specific mistakes, misjudgements and miscommunications" in dealing with Rice. The chief inspector said a final decision by the Parole Board to release Rice "gave insufficient weight to the underlying nature of his risk of harm to others". Mr Bridges revealed that the board had received "over optimistic" reports of his progress under treatment and did not have a full picture of his previous crimes, including the fact that he had targeted children. A previous decision to move him to an open jail had created expectations that his release date was a matter of "when not if", the report said. Mr Bridges also concluded that it was frequently unclear who was in charge of the case. "He could and should have been better managed," the report said. "A sequence of deficiencies in the form of mistakes, misjudgements and miscommunications ... had a compounding effect so that they came to amount to what we call a cumulative failure."The report said a key recommendation was its call for a "major appraisal of current policy and practice for releasing prisoners from indeterminate sentences".The home secretary, John Reid, said in a written statement that the government would consider Mr Bridges' report carefully and make improvements "through legislation if necessary". Barrie Crook, chief officer of the Hampshire probation area, admitted that mistakes were made by his service in its dealings with Rice. Hampshire police's assistant chief constable, Steve Watts, said the force had increased manpower to look after dangerous people released from prison.The recommendations in today's report include: 路 The National Offender Management Service should give special consideration on how to provide effective start-to-end offender management路 At key decision-making points in a prisoner's sentence there should be a separate assessment of the prisoner that is "independent of the treatment and which takes into account all available evidence"路 When prisoners are moved to open prisons the way in which they are managed should "be reviewed in order to ensure that expectations by all involved are clearly giving priority to public protection"路 When managing a high risk offender in the community, proper attention should be given to their human rights but authorities "should maintain in practice a top priority focus on the public protection requirements of the case". Today's report follows a previous report by Mr Bridges about Damien Hanson, who was on probation when he fatally stabbed London financier John Monckton during a burglary in November 2004. That report found "serious deficiencies" in the way Hanson had been released halfway through a 12-year sentence for attempted murder. Other recent murders by offenders on probation include those of 16-year-old Mary Ann Leneghan, teacher Robert Symons and Nottingham jeweller Marian Bates.Mr Reid said recommendations from today's report would be included in a series of measures the government was taking in response to an earlier case and previously announced by former home secretary Charles Clarke.Before being sacked, Mr Clarke announced plans for a new system of violent offender orders intended to protect the public from dangerous criminals.Today Michael McGovern, Ms Bryant's ex-partner and the father of their daughter, Hannah, told GMTV: "There have to be major changes to government policy. It needs to be looked at, as innocent people are dying."