What to write about this week? Should it be the triumph of our wider community over the racist knuckle-heads who thought they had got away with the murder of Stephen Lawrence? Or the backlash from those few who would argue for them. "Poor blokes, I feel for them. Flawed DNA!" posted Lorraine from Dorset on the Daily Mail's website. "I didn't expect them to be released. The establishment would have lost too much face. I hope now the media will stop going on about it," wrote Christy from Farnham.Should it be that tweet from Diane Abbott ("White people love to divide and rule") and the furore that caused? What to say; other than assuming uniformity of thought within any community is daft and tweeting to that effect, accidentally or otherwise, is suicidal.Maybe it should be the continuing descent of football, with Liverpool's Luis Suárez refusing to accept that he racially abused another professional on the pitch and where his club has declined to set him straight. Or the plight of Oldham defender Tom Adeyemi, who went to Liverpool's ground last Friday night and was visibly distressed by alleged racial abuse. Something about chickens coming home to roost. Or the story about Talksport presenter Stan Collymore, the subject of racist tweets from one who clearly sees himself as a man of letters. "Has anyone ever called you Stan Cooneymore?" he asked the presenter. I could write about my presenter friend who gets offensive, racially based texts, whenever he starts his radio show.But, funnily enough, I think a development worth highlighting concerns a story gaining traction in India right now involving a group calling itself the Asian Industry Forum. It has sent a statement to Asian investors and the Asian press advising them "to avoid new investments in the UK due to the increasing number of attacks against people of Asian origin". Asian students planning to study here, the forum says, might want to try the US; steer clear of the "racism, unemployment and alcoholism". Seems to me that this ties the strands together. For our race rows are everywhere reported in the global village and, rightly or wrongly, they resonate. On economic grounds, on grounds of reputation; is this the image we want in 2012?