Next to a poster inviting over-40s to have a free NHS health check, a sticker marks Lee Pharmacy as a CitySafe haven, "dedicated to Jimmy Mizen".It is one of around 300 businesses and public buildings across the capital to display the CitySafe badge, informing young people that they can seek refuge inside from violence. But for those who know this area of south-east London, the sign has a particular resonance: the Three Cooks bakery next door is where 16-year-old Jimmy bled to death in 2008 after a glass dish thrown at him by an older teenager severed vital vessels in his neck. The following year, the pharmacy became one of the first safe havens, with the Mizen family playing a key role in the development.Earlier this month, shadow Olympics minister and former Labour cabinet member Tessa Jowell announced she had donated £100,000 – half the compensation she received from News International over the hacking of her phone – to the CitySafe campaign run by London Citizens. Simultaneously, the umbrella group of community organisers in the capital unveiled plans to bolster the scheme by developing 50 "safe zones" – each containing several havens – as part of a "100 days of peace" campaign inspired by the ancient Olympic tradition of calling a truce to hostilities for 50 days before and after the Games.The families of three other young murder victims are also involved: elsewhere in London the CitySafe stickers are dedicated to Bob Litambola, Martin Dinnegan and David Idowu.Safe havens for teenagers conjure up images of terrified teens being chased by territory obsessed, knife-wielding gang members. Yet the initiative's goals are far broader: by getting local schoolchildren to select potential venues and approach shopkeepers, it aims to build valuable links between youths and local businesses that enhance community life.Shops that sign up must pledge to report 100% of crime and antisocial behaviour, even if delayed police responses have previously left them frustrated. In return, community organisers will help broker closer relationships with the police so shopkeepers' concerns are addressed."Lots of people ask how many times the havens have been used but there are so many other things we ask people to do," says CitySafe co-ordinator Peter Brierley. "The encouragement to report 100% of crime is a really important one ... [otherwise] resources don't go into that area."Of 75 shopkeepers in the three pilot boroughs of Lewisham, Newham and Greenwich who responded to a survey in 2011, 65% said their haven had been used once or more in a six-month period. Of the young people who had stopped in a haven, 23% said it was because they were being followed, 6% because they were escaping a fight and 2% after an attack. Another 68% simply put it down to "anxiety or fear". A total of 87% of shopkeepers felt the scheme was good or very good at increasing safety, protecting young people and strengthening relationships.Stronger communityAt Lee Pharmacy, owner Al Patel has never had anyone seek refuge but he is adamant that the community feels stronger as a result of the scheme. Businesses have worked together, marshalled by London Citizens community organiser Derron Wallace, to get police to commit to installing CCTV and doing their best to respond to reports of crime within 25 minutes. "Residents say they find it safer, we haven't got the gangs here any more," Patel says. "We were getting groups of youths congregating outside round the corner, there was all sorts of drug dealing going on, people were scared to go to the shops."In many cases the scheme is as much about reducing fear of crime as it is about actual crime. "If we can have an impact on that [the fear of crime] it makes a massive contribution to society," says Brierley.His assertions are borne out by local young people who have never been victims of crime but say that they have heard about teenagers in their area being murdered, and that they are scared of the things they see so much about on TV: gang crime, knife crime and rioters. Knowing that there are people who will help if they find themselves in trouble seems to have had a transformative effect, they say.At the Budgens supermarket in Crofton Park, another haven, Michelle Lindvall, 12, says: "When I joined CitySafe I felt so much safer going out with my friends for the day. Before I knew about it, I hardly went out because I was scared something might happen. You could get beaten up by a gang or anything."Camilla Yahaya and Amanda Osei-Braimah, 15, who were instrumental in bringing the scheme to the area, say young people raised fears about what might happen to them as they walked through the park, or rode on the bus. But they think the so-called postcode wars between youngsters from different areas are not the problem locally that they used to be.Their work seems to have a hit a nerve: the four-strong young citizens' group they started at their school two years ago now has 200 members including Rume Wenisuh, 13, who says: "You feel treated differently now. [Shopkeepers] look at me in a positive rather than a negative way. "Budgens owner Jayendra Patel was initially cautious about the scheme but is delighted he took the plunge. "The first day they came to me I thought, 'Is it worthwhile to get myself involved in this kind of trouble, you might be creating a problem for yourself?' But then at the same time I realised I've been here 32 years and society has helped me – it's my responsibility to look after the society."My attitude has changed: it used to be that if five young people came into my shop at one time my blood pressure would go up. Today there can be 40 to 50 of them and I don't have a problem."Friendly approachHe estimates that the shop is used as a haven three or four times a month. If he can see the group outside that is causing the problem he goes to speak to them, and says his friendly approach is effective at defusing tension.An adaptation of the CitySafe idea in Liverpool resulted in a 33% drop in crime in the immediate vicinity of the 30 shops taking part, and eight more are about to join up. The scheme is being started in Milton Keynes too. But the London results so far are not flawless. In the pilot evaluation, only 45% of businesses said they were still reporting all crimes, with nearly a quarter reporting less than 50%.Brierley says some of the money donated by Jowell will go into strengthening the scheme: "It's really important that people who have signed up are visited, encouraged, trained," he says.Should this kind of work be funded by the state? "It's not saying we're replacing anything, it's hopefully enhancing what's already there," Brierley replies.CitySafe aims to get young children on board in the hope that a commitment to community fostered at an impressionable age will stick with them. At Kelvin Grove primary school in Sydenham, south London, eight-year-old Joshua is already signed up. "I think it's good because last year the riots destroyed people's homes," he says, waving a small, clenched fist."We need to stop violence and be strong. So I say, united we stand."