It is difficult to comprehend the distress that relatives of Andrew, Janette, Stacey and Daryl Findlay feel. It must be all but impossible to recover from having the entire branch of your family wiped out, their house obliterated. This is what happened three days before Christmas in 1999, when gas leaked into the foundations of their home in Larkhall in Lanarkshire. The photographs show little but matchsticks remaining.The misery could only be tainted with anger. In the 11 years before the explosion, there had been 27 leaks from the gas mains that fed the Findlays' house. Thirteen of these had occurred in their street, Carlisle Road, and three had been reported just outside the house itself. Yet last week, three appeal court judges decided Transco, the company responsible for the supply, could not be charged with 'corporate killing'.A couple of weeks before, Transco announced pre-tax profits of £1.25billion, up 11 per cent on the year. Scotland was supposed to be better than this. Although the law had never been tested, it was believed that a conviction for corporate killing could be made north of the border without the English system's need to identify a 'controlling mind' in the company. Down south, prosecutions resulting from disasters such as Zeebrugge, the Marchioness and Hillsborough have fallen over on the need to pick out these responsible individuals. The fat cats get away with it. The judges - Lords MacLean, Osborne and Hamilton - ruled that the culpable homicide charge in the Findlay case is irrelevant. While they will give their reasons in writing later, it seems they couldn't place responsibility with any of the 150 people involved in running the company in the years leading up to the disaster. Hands that rise and grasp for big salaries disappear in the face of question of responsibility. The buck never stops. This is tragic. It's not just the occasional horror like Larkhall; five people a week die in British workplaces. Far from being in a better position, we in Scotland are now worse off. The decision means that the law on both sides of the border is the same, but in the south change is mooted. David Blunkett has promised legislation for England and Wales which will strip away the need for an individual to be identified before a company can be charged with manslaughter. For some, that isn't going far enough. The STUC, among others, wants to see directors thrown in jail. Any change in the law here would occur in a climate of outrage. Only the most virtuous could forgive a company that killed their family through institutional laziness. There is something particularly horrible about a crime of this nature. The urge for retribution lacks a target. The forlorn need for someone to pay must be misery-inducing, especially in the current gobble-fest of vast bonuses for executives. There is an ugly poignancy to Transco's pride in the 'cost savings' it has achieved to make such profits, even though those presumably refer to mere job losses rather than deaths. The trouble is that justice isn't about revenge or, at least, it shouldn't be. It is about protecting society. For those of us who live in Scotland and have no connection to the law, the urge for self-preservation is a difficult one to satisfy. The Crown Office and the Law Society work in a culture of secrecy and do not seem to share our southern neighbour's sense that criminal law needs to be reformed, and that companies need to be included in crimes of homicide. That urge to put directors in jail if their companies are found guilty of manslaughter is being resisted by the CBI. It argues that the threat of incarceration would dissuade the talented from making difficult decisions or even becoming directors. This is absurd. What are these high-flyers going to do instead? Head down to the allotment? Yet a situation where a company like Transco would have to appoint a particular individual, say a 'safety officer', to serve time in cases like the Larkhall tragedy is fraught with its own difficulties. Blunkett has realised this and ruled out any actual legislation that will put directors in jail. It's sad to say, but I suspect he is right. Two big gaps in the law need to be filled. The first is to impose a specific duty on directors to be responsible for the safety of customers and staff. The second is that ability to prosecute a company for killing people without having to go after individuals. Sometimes a culture is responsible. There is the danger that, following the Larkhall decision, the Scottish Parliament will go further than Westminster and overextend, jailing directors for the culture they create rather than downright negligence. We are, after all, already disgusted with chief executives being paid for failure. It's not necessary, though, and would merely be scapegoating. A charge of corporate killing would work if the stigma also attaches itself to company executives. Health and safety failures should be printed in company accounts, so that in the worst cases every shareholder could feel they played their own little part in any killing. It is ugly and absurd that profits should be greater than responsibility, but it wouldn't take arbitrary jail sentences to instil a sense of fear and responsibility in those who run companies. We only need hold their businesses as killers.