Police are investigating possible connections between the 1986 disappearance of estate agent Suzy Lamplugh and Steve Wright, it has been confirmed. Wright was today jailed for life for the murder of five women who worked as prostitutes in Suffolk.The disappearance of Lamplugh remains unsolved after 22 years. Her body has never been found and she was declared dead in 1994. Her father Paul Lamplugh, 76, of Mortlake, south-west London, confirmed to the Guardian yesterday that he had been contacted by Metropolitan police officers investigating a possible link between his daughter and Wright.Suffolk police said today that detectives involved with Wright case have been approached by Scotland Yard in connection with the disappearance of Lamplugh.The force stressed it was a "routine" approach and repeated that it was unaware of any evidence directly linking Wright to any other crimes. A Met police spokesman said: "We are not prepared to discuss who we may or may not wish to interview in connection with any ongoing investigation."However, Lamplugh's father told the Daily Telegraph Scotland Yard had "discussed Steve Wright with me before".It is known that Wright and Lamplugh were acquaintances when they worked on the luxury ship the QE2 in the early 1980s. Wright regularly met up with her when he later moved to Brixton in south London, where he ran a pub. The 25-year-old estate agent went missing on July 28 1986 after going to meet a client known as Mr Kipper.Wright's ex-wife, Diane Cole, told the Daily Mail he had shore leave around the time of Lamplugh's disappearance. She has given full details to police. Cole, 53, from Hartlepool, Cleveland, told the paper: "I'm sure Steve used the word 'kipper' as slang for face."In addition to Lamplugh's disappearance, Wright could be questioned over as many as five unsolved murders and disappearances in the last 16 years. Psychologists have told police that it is "highly likely" Wright, 49, has killed before, and the murders by him of five prostitutes in Ipswich bear striking similarities to several unsolved killings in East Anglia in recent years.