Hundreds of friends and neighbours of April Jones's family have attended a special church service to pray for the return of the five-year-old girl.The bishop of Bangor, Andy John, told the congregation at St Peter's church in Machynlleth, mid-Wales, that April was in the "strong arms of God" – but said her family still wanted her back.He said the whole community faced a journey as it tried to recover from what had happened, but they would make it together. John praised the efforts of those who have been looking for April for almost a week and thanked people from across the world for messages of support and compassion.Police continued to search for the body of April, who went missing last Monday as she played near her home. The man charged with her murder, Mark Bridger, 46, is due to appear before magistrates in Aberystwyth on Monday.On Sunday morning officers said 10 specialist police search teams were continuing a "systematic and methodical search in and around the town". Meanwhile, some mountain rescue teams would withdraw. A police spokesman said: "We will see a change in resourcing but not in intensity as we move forward with the search. We are maintaining the momentum and we remain totally focused and committed to finding April."As police gave their update, an estimated 700 residents, wearing pink ribbons for the little girl, walked from April's home on the Bryn-y-Gog estate through Machynlleth to the 19th-century stone church. More than 200 people squeezed inside; hundreds more listened to the service as it was relayed on loudspeakers outside.Welcoming worshippers, the Rev Kathleen Rogers said: "We cannot bring little April, our sweet and innocent little girl, home as we had hoped. But our hope has now been moved on to sure and certain hope that she is in the arms of Jesus." She read a poem called Mum on behalf of April's mother.During the service, two of April's schoolmates, Gwern, eight, and Lydia, seven, carried lit candles to the altar. The congregation sang rousing versions of hymns including All Creatures Great and Small and Guide Me O Thou Great Redeemer, and they heard a reading of the parable of the Good Samaritan.The bishop of Bangor said what had been visited on April's family and the community was "beyond words". But, he added: "We're here for April and her family. We're here to surround them with our love, our prayers and to let them know we are here with them shoulder to shoulder."April's parents were not in church. John said: "If Coral and Paul are listening to this, know the degree of care and compassion that we send to you. After the cameras have gone we will still be here for you. Our prayers for you and April will continue."Acknowledging there was no longer any hope of finding April alive, John continued: "Jesus said: 'Let the little children come to me and do not hinder them for the kingdom of God belongs to such as these.' We take comfort that April is in the strong and loving arms of God but we want her home."He thanked the community for the compassion it had shown. "You have touched the hearts of people across the world. You have shown resolve, determination and love beyond any expectation."Light truly is stronger than the darkness. We know just how dark that darkness can be when we're faced with events like this. But that love shows us that despair will not have the last word."John praised the school for the "extraordinary care" it had shown, and the "extraordinary efforts" of the searchers. "We have seen your exhausted faces when you have come back from a hard day. We have seen you go and take 40 winks and then back out again. We've seen your determination."He thanked the people who, from further afield, had "jumped into their cars, found out where the mountain rescue teams were and taken them food so they could continue with their work".People had arrived in Machynlleth from across Wales and England, and John said the diocese had received messages of support from as far away as South Africa and New Zealand. It had even received donations from churches in Texas.John said this service was not the end but a "step on the way". "It's a journey we have to do together. We have to journey together bearing the bruises, bearing the wounds, fighting the fears and the anger and despair." But he said they would travel together, not just for their sake but also for April and her family.The many pink ribbons and balloons around the town were a reminder that "life is good, life is precious, life is indescribably wonderful", he said, adding: "Let us journey – not walk away, not fall apart – let us be together, to go on, to rest on each other. We want April home with her family and for them to be enveloped in the love that endures for all time. I know together we will not fail."