Unarmed Cumbrian police officers chased Derrick Bird after he had already begun his killing spree but lost him after he pointed a gun at two of them, forcing them to hide, it emerged today.Police also revealed that a member of the public found himself pursuing the gunman through the streets of Cumbria when another unarmed police officer jumped into his car.The unorthodox pursuit raised questions about Cumbria constabulary's handling of Bird's shooting spree last Wednesday. Police have been criticised for failing to stop Bird during his 45-mile rampage, which ended with his suicide after he had shot 12 people dead.One of the police chiefs on the case revealed that three of his officers caught sight of Bird in Whitehaven town centre just after fellow taxi driver Darren Rewcastle became his third victim, but had no chance to stop him.Deputy Chief Constable Stuart Hyde said that a police officer, PC Mick Taylor, jumped into civilian Paul Goodwin's car – at the driver's invitation – after hearing shots fired nearby.Goodwin was following Bird when he saw Taylor, he told the BBC. "Mick Taylor's the local town bobbie – everyone knows Mick. I pulled over and said, Mick, get in my car, it's him in the taxi."They pursued Bird, and at that time were the only car following the gunman. At the traffic lights, Bird shot a man who had just walked around the corner, taxi driver Paul Wilson. "I just seen him jolt back, put his hand to his face and he's got blood on his hands," said Goodwin."I said to Mick that this guy has got something against taxi drivers," he added."We followed him on to Coach Road and we are about 10-15 yards behind. Mick is saying, 'Keep back, keep back'."As they continued their pursuit, another taxi came over a hill. Bird pulled level with the oncoming cab, and shot at the driver. Taylor stopped to help the wounded, one of whom was a friend of Bird's. Terry Kennedy, who had once been on holiday with Bird to Thailand, is now at risk of having his hand amputated as a result of the shooting. He was one of 11 people who were shot but not killed during Bird's rampage. Four of those injured remain in hospital.As Taylor helped Kennedy, two more officers in a police van carried on the pursuit. They followed Bird's car until he pulled over and pointed his gun at them. They were forced to hide under their vehicle's dashboard, giving Bird the opportunity to drive away. The force said in a statement: "They were forced to protect themselves after it became clear they could not reverse due to the traffic that had built up behind them."We believe he [Bird] then drove off at speed. Despite having just witnessed a shooting and having a gun pointed at them, the officers attempted to follow him but, despite asking passers-by where he had driven, they were unable to locate him again."A member of Goodwin's family said today it was "amazing" that the force did not have a pursuit vehicle on the ground quickly enough to follow Bird at a distance."Paul was having to follow Birdy in his car, a battered Ford Escort, driving around the one-way system, with this policeman sitting next to him knowing that Birdy was using a gun. There wasn't another officer in sight. The questions we keep asking ourselves are, where were the other policemen? Where were the pursuit cars and helicopters? Where were the guns?"Lives could have been saved if police had got to Bird or got a handle on his movements sooner," the family member said.But Hyde dismissed suggestions it was dangerous for an officer to take a member of the public into such a risky situation."It's extraordinary circumstances. I don't think the word dangerous comes into it," he said.None of the three officers who saw Bird on his rampage were armed or trained at dealing with such situations, said Hyde.He commended officers for getting to the scene "within minutes, possibly seconds" of the initial call. Inquests have been opened into the deaths of the 12 victims and Bird himself. The bodies will now be released to families so that funerals can be held.