The video of Heshu Yones, a Kurdish Muslim woman getting ready for a night out, is broadcast on television news while a voiceover explains that her father, Abdalla Yones, slit her throat because he disapproved of her relationship with her Christian Lebanese boyfriend. Mr Yones then slit his own throat, we are told, and jumped from his third-floor council flat. This is followed by a shot of Andy Baker, a Metropolitan police commander, holding forth about "honour" killings.The heart of darkness throbs, it seems, in the very bosom of "civilised" white society. A murder has been exoticised. When Judge Neil Denison sums up the case - "This is a tragic story arising out of irreconcilable differences between traditional Kurdish values and the values of western society" - the subtext, like so much dirty froth, rises to the surface. Amid all the racist bile we see in the coverage of refugees, this becomes yet another line of attack - that foreign culture is bringing bloodshed to the streets of Britain. It is the same agenda that David Blunkett feeds into when he calls onmigrants to adopt British "norms of acceptability" and expresses concern about issues such as "forced marriage" that are alien to "British" values. By these standards, it presumably must be British values that inspire south Asian and Kurdish women to fight abuses in their communities - not their sense of injustice or their need to live free from violence. Abdalla Yones did not, in fact, use "honour" to justify his actions, although he did say that his daughter had contravened Kurdish cultural norms. Yet the police and media were quick to label it an honour killing. Some Asian, Middle Eastern and Mediterranean communities have long sought to defend crimes against women whose "errant" behaviour - anything from the wrong choice of dress to the wrong partner - is seen to dishonour the family. It may be that the term has acquired a particular currency because of its use by women from Iraqi Kurdistan, where honour killings were legal until last year. But the killing of women as the ultimate method of exerting control over them is not the preserve of any one class, community, race or religion. The Met estimates that there were 12 "honour" killings last year across all communities, including Sikh, Christian and Muslim, while more than 100 women are killed by their partners in England and Wales every year. All domestic murders of women take place within a "cultural" context. Yet culture is the prism through which we view only the actions of minorities. In 1994, Roy Greech, a white man, stabbed his wife 23 times and left the knife in her throat because she was having an affair. Crime of passion? Jealousy? Honour? Different labels, but they are all about the control of a woman's body and mind. <+>"H onour" has long been the veil drawn over brutal crimes in our communities. It is the cement between families and communities, but it props up patriarchal values and allows men to get away with murder. "Honour" is a straitjacket, trapping women in a murderous situation; but it gives men the freedom of the city, a cultural defence of their plea of provocation in a murder charge. The real problem with the focus on "honour" by police, judiciary and other state agencies is that it reduces their already limited concentration span on domestic violence and encourages a differential response to women from different backgrounds. When Commander Baker stressed that murder is murder, it felt as if the police had made a significant shift in their understanding, that culture cannot be an excuse for killing. This "mature multiculturalism" is a welcome change from the cultural relativism that has often clouded the thinking of state agencies, who left communi ties to deal with their "errant women" because they believed that to intervene would somehow be racist. That collusion between state and community leaders lay at the heart of the critique of multiculturalism by Asian women. It was to the state that Asian women turned for protection, the same state that left them at the mercy of their communities. A special taskforce within the Met is now researching the issue of honour killings. But although it is important to understand violence in whatever context it occurs, this feels like standard-issue prevarication when a situation is too hot to handle. The police say multi-agency forums are the way to deal with this issue; but these forums lack accountability, and the community representatives invited on to them are often the very same people - business and religious leaders - for whom honour is vested in land and women. Honour killing, like forced marriage or dowry abuse, needs to be integrated into the mainstream fight against domestic violence. Some Kurdish and Middle Eastern women's groups believe such killings need to be given special status, fearing they will receive lower priority if placed within the framework of underpoliced domestic violence. But singling out honour killings risks promoting a racist agenda, rather than gender equality. The debate on honour killings occupies that slippery ground between race and gender - a no-man's-land, so to speak. ·  Rahila Gupta has edited a collection of essays, From Homebreakers to Jailbreakers: Southall Black Sisters, to be published by Zed Press next month sbs@leonet.co.uk