There seems to be an endlessly rich list of names for informers. Rat, squealer, snitch, tout and snout are some that come easily to mind.There have been as many as 200 names dating back to the seventeeth century, according to this account. Many are clearly derogatory, others colourful.The origins of the names are often obscure. There are for instance two possible explanations for a grass. Perhaps it came from the song, Whispering Grass, or possibly from the rhyming slang of grasshopper, meaning shopper or even copper.Whatever term is used, the practice of giving inside information about colleagues, comrades, friends and even lovers to the authorities has been around for a very long time.Last week, a little sunlight was let into the hidden world of informants in political campaigns. The Guardian revealed how police had tried to recruit a young activist to grass on the political activities of students and protesters in Cambridge. It was an offer he refused.There were some who pointed out that the recruitment of informers is not new (see for example in the comments section of the story about the Cambridgeshire police and elsewhere).There is little doubt about that. It is a traditional technique that has been routinely exploited by the British police for decades. Since its inception in the 1880s, Special Branch officers have relied on informers within political groups to slip them information.More recently, campaigners from the 1960s and 1970s onwards have regularly told tales of how they have been approached by police to inform on their friends and fellow protesters. (If police have asked you to become an informant, I would be interested to hear from you).A few of these approaches were publicised in the media from time to time. But the modern era has brought an important change.Campaigners now have the technology to turn the tables on the police and surreptitiously record the meetings at which the police officers are trying to recruit them.An early example of this came four years ago when Tilly Gifford, an activist in the environmental Plane Stupid campaign, exposed an attempt by Scottish police to recruit her. You can read how she did it here, here and here, and listen to the tapes of the recruitment pitch here.Clearly taping these types of approaches have a bigger impact in the media as the public can hear for themselves that it has happened, and they do not have to rely on the word of the activists.Concealed recording devices pose a problem for the police as the activists have a powerful weapon to expose, and potentially, curb the recruitment of informers from within their midst.For the police, approaching any activist to become an informant is a gamble, as a certain percentage are always going to say no and talk to their friends about it.It is also an occupational hazard, as other activists may go a step further and secrete a recording device in their clothes, and then pass the results on to the media.This was what happened in last week's story about the Cambridge students and protesters - you can hear the clips here, here, here, here and here.It appears that when police are trying to recruit an activist, they probe the would-be informants to see if they are wearing recording devices.Remarkably in this tape recorded by Gifford in 2009, a police officer actually asks her if she is recording the exchanges with him, but still carries on trying to persuade her to become an informant.