The message on the police wreath reads: "We will never forget." And 17 years after PC Keith Blakelock was murdered during the riots on the Broadwater Farm estate in north London his colleagues have been as good as their word. Each year on or around October 6, the date Blakelock died, a police ceremony is held at his memorial, a small headstone which sits discreetly outside Boots in the centre of Muswell Hill, not far from the estate in Tottenham where he lost his life.Forty-plus miles away Winston Silcott sits in his ground-floor cell at Blantyre House, an open prison in the picture postcard village of Goudhurst in Kent. In 1987 he - along with Engin Raghip and Mark Braithwaite - was convicted of murdering Blakelock. All three had their convictions overturned in 1991. Raghip and Braithwaite were released but Silcott languishes in jail after being given a life sentence for the unrelated murder of Anthony Smith, an amateur boxer and gangster. The quashing of Silcott's conviction should have ended any connection between him and Blakelock. But more than a decade later the two names remain locked together. "The name Winston Silcott is synonymous with the murder of one of our colleagues," says Norman Brennan, a policeman who runs the Victims of Crime Trust as well as an organisation to safeguard police officers called Protect the Protectors."Any time Winston Silcott's name is mentioned it makes police officers' hair stand on end. We in the police service don't believe that justice has been done. Many of my colleagues, including myself, are convinced that the right people were convicted at the time. What I am saying is what tens of thousands of police officers would love to say but daren't because of their careers." Both the Metropolitan police and the usually outspoken Police Federation declined to comment on the attitude of their officers to Silcott, but - like Brennan - much of the media persists in linking the two men. Righteous indignation has coloured reports about Silcott's payout for wrongful conviction over the Blakelock case in 1999, about his recent "shopping trips" from jail to prepare him for release, and about his continuing fight to prise his name apart from Blakelock's. Yesterday, the Sun slapped the front page headline "He's Out" on a story that Silcott had been allowed to visit a shopping centre and shrieked: "This is grinning murderer Winston Silcott - out of jail and enjoying a shopping spree." The most recent stories warn ominously of the imminent return of "killer" Silcott to Tottenham. They are usually accompanied by the same darkened, dangerous-looking police photo of him with eyes ablaze - a great black bogeyman. Silcott strolls into the visiting room at Blantyre House and greets me politely, neither warm nor cold, just neutral. He is tall with diffident brown eyes and long, elegant fingers. There is no sign of the crazed expression of the photo. He explains it was taken when he was sleeping in a cell at Paddington Green police station. He was woken and then held against a wall in the corridor, each arm pinned back by three officers. He anticipated a beating and so the expression on his face is a mixture of terror and the disorientation of recent sleep rather than malevolence. The famous "freedom beard" which he has been growing since he went to jail as a declaration of his innocence has now reached 6ft 6ins - four inches longer than him. He wears it coiled into a neat, upside-down pyramid under his chin, wrapping and unwrapping it for curious onlookers. He answers questions obligingly but part of him seems elsewhere. Only when he talks about his case does white heat burn through his eyes; the minutiae of police statements and defence arguments tumble out. He believes he is serving an extended sentence not as payback for Smith's death but for Blakelock's - even though it is 11 years since he was cleared of it. "I'm a political prisoner," he says baldly. Although he shrugs at the mention of the "killer returns" headlines he admits that the perpetuation of the "evil black man" stereotype wounds him deeply. "Of course it hurts. And it hurts my family much more than it hurts me. If the police can't catch the person who killed a police officer it is bad for their morale, so they keep coming back to me. But what about my morale. Doesn't that count for anything? The police and the media don't know me, they don't know anything about me, but they still say whatever they want. What is Winston Silcott like? Why have I become Public Enemy Number One? I'm not the person they write all that stuff about. Why should I have to defend myself against all that?" Although the police took more than 1,000 photos of the Broadwater Farm riots none showed Silcott to be present. Nor was there any forensic evidence linking him to Blakelock's murder. He was convicted and sentenced to 30 years in jail on the basis of a statement he was supposed to have made saying that the police would never get anyone to testify against him. Silcott says he made no comment throughout five separate interviews with police and he was cleared on appeal after tests showed that the comments had been added later and not at the time that he was interviewed. "It took just 26 words I didn't say to sentence me to 30 years," he says. He spent the first five years of his sentence as a double category A prisoner, mixing with other high-profile inmates including the Birmingham Six, Guildford Four and Reggie Kray. He was downgraded to category B following the quashing of his conviction for Blakelock's murder but has served three years beyond the minimum tariff set for him by the judge because although he is a model prisoner, now downgraded to category D, he refuses to acknowledge that he murdered Smith - and a failure to admit guilt for a crime delays parole. He says he stabbed Smith in self-defence after he and two other men attacked him at a party. Although he lost his appeal against the murder conviction he hopes to pursue the claim in the European court. Since the day he walked into jail the knowledge that he had nothing to do with Blakelock's death and the belief that he did not murder Smith but killed him to defend his own life have sustained Silcott. He is a model prisoner - not because he has gone out of his way to curry favour with prison staff but because he has no interest in taking on the system. He has somehow allowed it to wash over him. His supporters say that he has served more than his time for killing Smith. Francis Ackroyd, a minister at a Tottenham church and a member of the Broadwater Farm Clergy and Churches Workers Group, says he should be released. He believes that Silcott's stretch in jail has been extended because of the public furore surrounding Blakelock's murder. In a letter to the parole board last year he wrote: "Despite the impression given by certain sections of the media and the police Mr Silcott was clearly acquitted of this murder and concerns were so great of police malpractice around the original conviction that two very senior officers were themselves tried on criminal charges." (The officers were cleared at the Old Bailey of charges of perjury and perverting the course of justice.) Silcott's family live in a quiet street not far from the estate. His mother Mary finds it less easy than her son to insulate herself from the harsh words from police and media. "When I see these stories I sit down and cry. Our feelings count for nothing. The people who write those stories would probably be glad if we died ... I don't understand why Winston is still being linked to the Blakelock case when he has been cleared. As the years of his sentence go by it gets harder and harder for us. We are serving the sentence with him." Although Silcott had a few minor convictions before the Smith and Blakelock cases he believes that he was a target for police not because of his criminal record but because as founder of the Broadwater Farm Youth Association he stood up for black youths who were stopped, searched and generally harassed by the police. His close friend Stafford Scott, now a project manager at the Bernie Grant Trust, remembers the voluntary work that he, Silcott and a group of others used to do on the estate bringing food to pensioners, even on Christmas Day. He was also a skilful footballer, a DJ and ran a grocer's shop on the estate, "Winston and I were part of a larger crew of black males. We were racially harassed and criminalised and we had no qualms about standing up for ourselves," says Scott. Despite their mistrust of the police he, Silcott and their friends did embark on some bridge-building exercises with the police - a football match being one example. Plans for Silcott to return to Tottenham are under way but it is unlikely that he will be able to slip back unnoticed by both his supporters and his detractors."People in the local community admire the fact that he survived and the way he handled the situation he found himself in. That in itself is something to celebrate," says Scott. However Brennan and the tens of thousands of police officers he says share his views will not be cheering his return. "His reputation is tainted and he doesn't deserve to be welcomed back into the community," he says. "Those words just wash off my back," says Silcott. He rejects suggestions that it would be best for him to put as much distance as possible between himself and the police in this country when he is released. He has no plans to go anywhere other than Tottenham. For him there is nothing left to fear because the worst has already happened. "Why would I go abroad or hide? I have done nothing wrong. I don't believe the police will cause me any problems when I get out. Every time they say something bad about me it gives me a new lease of life and makes me stronger because I know I am an innocent man."