The Crown Prosecution Service has abandoned its case against an anti-abortion protester whom it charged under anti-pornography laws because he demonstrated with a picture of an aborted foetus.It said yesterday that it would offer no evidence against Kevin O'Neill, after the campaigner's solicitor wrote to the attorney general requesting that the prosecution be dropped. Mr O'Neill, an IT contractor, was arrested last November during a peaceful protest in the City of London by the Roman Catholic group Human Life International. The police originally charged him under the Public Order Act 1986, which bans the display of "threatening, abusive or insulting" signs. Previous attempts to prosecute anti-abortion activists under the legislation have failed and the CPS recommended that Mr O'Neill be charged with displaying an indecent image instead. That charge was in turn replaced with one of committing an act of "of lewd, obscene or disgusting nature, outraging public decency", which is more commonly used to deal with incidents such as sex in public places. Barry Hugill, spokesman for the civil rights group Liberty, said: "It seems absolutely bizarre. It is difficult to see why they were so determined to bring a criminal action against him. The right to protest is an absolutely fundamental aspect of the democratic system, whether or not you agree with the views being expressed. "Upsetting though pictures of aborted foetuses may be, they could hardly be considered indecent in the sense that the public would expect. That [legislation] has always been understood to be an anti-porn clause." Mr O'Neill, 30, from south-east London, said the prosecution had made him "angry and tired". "I was worried about the consequences because I could foresee making a job application and having to tell employers I had a conviction for lewd behaviour," he said. His solicitor, Kelvina Moore, of Murrays Partnership, said that he should never have been charged, adding: "There is no way you can suggest that either act was aimed at preventing what Kevin was doing: exercising freedom of expression." A CPS spokeswoman said it had offered no evidence because it realised there was no realistic prospect of conviction once all the evidence emerged. It initially advised the police that the relevant charge was displaying an indecent image, but later decided outraging public decency was more appropriate. She added: "There is clear case law on this point and it is not a particularly novel use of the legislation." In a statement, the City of London police said: "The force stands entirely behind their officers in the exercise of their powers in this particular situation. It would be nonsense to suggest that the City of London police has a political agenda in relation to the subject of this or any protest." But Greg Clovis, executive director of Human Life International, said: "If I was more cynical I would say there was an agenda of discouraging us from protesting."