We all kill the things we love, warned Oscar Wilde. The police were the darlings of Thatcherism, and they are at least as adored by Blair. But the economic neoliberalism at the heart of the Blatcherite consensus brought a social tsunami mortally endangering the policing traditions these politicians revere.The supposed golden age of British policing by consent (most of the 20th century, but particularly the 1940s and 50s) was a confidence trick. Crime and order were maintained by informal social controls, above all the gradual inclusion of the whole population into common citizenship. However, the police took much of the credit. In myriad individual cases police helped people in distress, although there was also rampant corruption and brutality. But the contribution of policing to the maintenance of order overall was primarily symbolic. Much research evidence shows that policing had little effect on levels of offending.The police have been in a growing quandary since the early 1970s, as social changes have driven up crime rates and disorder. The key drivers have been the bitter fruits of economic neoliberalism (increasing long-term unemployment, inequality, poverty), an egoistic consumerist culture and declining deference. Economic laissez-faire engendered moral laissez-faire. There is copious evidence demonstrating that inequality produces crime and violence. This is not primarily because of social exclusion or poverty. It is relative deprivation that counts most. Contrary to Blair's many quips on the topic, the rich are a major part of the problem.The crucial shift underlying the current crisis came in the early 1990s, when New Labour accepted the economic and social framework of Thatcherism. This meant that the second half of the celebrated slogan "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime" could only have a very narrow meaning. The basic driver of crime, triumphant neoliberalism, was deemed beyond government control. So the police had to start living up to their myth, delivering the effective crime control once produced by the social cohesion that was being ripped apart.To a limited extent the police have been able to keep a lid on crime, given the fair wind of relative economic prosperity since the mid-1990s. But the public remain worried despite falling overall crime rates; and rightly so, because nothing has changed in relation to the fundamental sources of insecurity. This is indicated by the growth of more serious crime within the overall reduction.Terrorism has brought all this out in a dramatic way, but the issues are not dissimilar to those posed by other forms of crime. Government policies in Iraq and elsewhere have clearly exacerbated the causes of terror, and the police are left trying to suppress the symptoms. The perpetrators of terrorist and indeed other crimes bear the immediate moral responsibility for their heinous acts, and it is right that all is done to bring them to justice. But responsible efforts to reduce risk require analysis of the wider causes. Raymond Chandler said it best in The Long Goodbye: "Crime isn't a disease, it's a symptom. Cops are like a doctor that gives you aspirin for a brain tumour."In his Dimbleby lecture last week, Sir Ian Blair called for "a debate about what kind of police service we want". This is a welcome recognition that, in a democracy, policies about policing cannot be the preserve of professionals. But the government seems only too eager to invite the police to shape policy, most blatantly in its deferral to police claims about the need for 90 days' detention for terror suspects.Sir Ian attributes crime and antisocial behaviour to three trends: declining influence of "the agencies of community cohesion" (churches, trade unions, housing associations), the disappearance of non-police "agents of social enforcement" (park-keepers, caretakers, bus conductors), and the closure of long-stay psychiatric institutions.These agencies were immediate sources of community cohesion. But such cohesion ultimately depends on wider social and cultural processes, including stable employment, the family as a crucible of responsibility and support, and a sense that the social order is just in its allocation of rewards. Sir Ian notes that it is now 60 years since the postwar Labour government's pledge of the welfare state to eradicate Beveridge's five giants: want, idleness, ignorance, squalor and disease. He suggests that Beveridge would now have added a sixth giant, insecurity about antisocial behaviour, crime and terrorism, "to join the remnants of his other five". But insecurity is largely the result of the resurgence of the other five giants, as the welfare state has been rolled back and "modernised" to near extinction.Sir Ian's basic question, "What kind of police service do we want?" cannot be considered in isolation from the question of the kind of society we have and want. Policing is a symbol, not a source, of the character of a civilisation. Policing cannot be expected to underpin a social order whose foundations have been eroded by Blatcherite neoliberalism.· Robert Reiner is a professor of criminology at the London School of Economics r.reiner@lse.ac.uk