While the government was getting tough on gum-chewers, graffiti-scribblers and assorted sub-branches of yob culture, a sinister crime epidemic was incubating, unseen. It took the death of two young women, gunned down on New Year's Day, to alert people to its scope. Charlene Ellis, 18, and Latisha Shakespear, 17, were killed instantly. Charlene's twin sister, Sophie, and Cheryl Shaw were injured by the sub-machine-gun bullets scything across the doorstep of a Jamaican hair salon in Aston, Bimingham. The girls had stepped out of a party for some air when two gangs opened fire.Death in the inner city has no automatic aftershock. The fact that these victims were young, innocent, female and celebrating a festival of hope provoked a horror rarely accorded to more conventional victims. However innocent young black men may be, their exit from life is as invisible as it is brutal.Gangland shootings are nothing new: 14 youths have been killed in Manchester in less than three years. In London, 250 police officers are involved in Operation Trident, the Met's initiative against Yardie-style gunmen. Fourteen-year-olds go armed with handguns, and annual firearms offences have risen from 4,904 to 7,362 since Tony Blair was first elected. Guns, the stock-in-trade of drugs overlords, are also the status symbol of the young dispossessed. Once they settled for Reebok trainers and other people's Nokias. Now it's replica guns or, for serious players, M16 rifles. In affluent suburbs, people feel suddenly vulnerable. The killing of girls out partying offers the uneasy hint that murderous hoods may not stick obligingly to their own kind and their own turf. It is time for terror. If the fear is justified, then the Government has been exceptionally remiss. The new Criminal Justice Bill, an epic of Tolkienean proportion and ferocity, leaves few wrongdoers unthreatened or basic tenets of jurisprudence unbruised. Among proposals to curtail trial by jury and retry suspects, you will find no mention of getting tough on gun-toters. Now, after Aston, there is a bolt-on remedy to this omission. The Home Secretary seems set to specify a minimum five-year sentence for anyone found carrying a gun. Why so late? Either the Government did not notice that city gangs are bristling with Mac-10 machine pistols or, just maybe, the latest plague is not quite as terrible as billed. Moral panics are self-fulfilling prophecies. The garrotting of Hugh Pilkington, an MP half-strangled outside the House of Commons in 1862, remains a famous example of a one-off incident talked up into a crime wave. Minor assaults were reclassified as garrottings, extra police were hired, flogging was reintroduced, sentences got longer and prisons tougher. Long after the myth of garrotting faded, the punitive regimes remained. More recently, carjacking became the new plague. If thefts were half as prevalent as the media once suggested, the Mercedes drivers of Hampstead would now be doing the school run by rickshaw. As Nacro says often, fear of violent crime is unwarranted by statistics. Even the sharp rise of firearms incidents since 1997 is, according to the Home Office, partly due to altering the counting rules. The Met calculates that gun crime makes up only 0.03 per cent of the capital's total. Still, it would be mad not to address the rise in bullet culture. Take the remedies first. If the kneejerk ban that followed the Dunblane massacre was a predictable failure, then a minimum five-year term for possession looks equally misguided. By all means have exemplary sentences for gangsters, but quick-fixes rarely work. Besides, the proposals seem academic when the problem is not how long to imprison the culprits but how to catch them. Despite rewards, and fingers pointed at the Johnson Crew and the Burger Bar Boys, Aston is not talking to its police. In thinking up solutions to violent crime, lack of trust always takes second place to lack of manpower. Scotland Yard, for instance, thinks 7,000 more officers would enable the Met to turn London into New York; once the crime capital of the US and now as safe as Maidenhead. But zero tolerance of beggars is not for British tastes, and our latest foray into slick, copycat NYPD justice has just cost £5.4 million on failed night courts. That leaves the causes of gun crime, but what are those? Shoot-em-up computer games and Lock Stock And Two Smoking Barrels are often blamed, generally by an intelligentsia currently raving about City of God, Fernando Meirelles's film of gun gangs murdering each other in the slums of Rio de Janeiro. There is a curious hypocrisy of violence. Politicians may not wipe one another out with Uzis, but they are happy to commend war and retribution to the thinking classes while expressing disbelief if the unthinking ones embark on anything more combative than a church hall table-tennis tournament. Then there is the ambivalence about firearms. Right-wing libertarians, some dedicated pheasant-blasters, are fond of the gun. Their mantra is that of the American firearms lobby: people, not weapons, are the killers. Their martyr is Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for manslaughter after shooting an unarmed burglar in the back. He will emerge from prison early this year to an undeserved hero's welcome. But however the peripheral arguments are finessed, drugs are, indisputably, at the heart of street warfare. Maybe the answer is to decriminalise all substances, with the exception of crack cocaine. Quite separately from lucrative racketeering, guns are also the insignia of social exclusion. Black-on-black crime is not an odd phenomenon, since most violence happens within the same racial group. Nor is it a novelty that too many black boys are academic failures who reap the social consequences. They have been doing so for 40 years. At last, society is starting to come up with braver reasons why high achievers at primary school end up, in 90 per cent of cases, with fewer than five GCSEs. Racism is to blame. So is a worry by teachers that they will look biased if they clamp down on bad behaviour. But so, more relevantly, is peer pressure by boys whose role model is the strutting superman rapper, complete with gun and compliant girl. Stereotyping young people is always dangerous. White thugs have worse objects of worship than So Solid Crew. Still, even black community leaders are linking school exclusions and hopeless futures with crass icons and a world where life grows cheaper. Gun culture, the split province of drugs barons and the dispossessed, is impinging on the rich. Crime figures out this week are likely to ratchet up public fear. When bans and rhetoric fail, offering marginalised children a better future than guns may sound a feeble remedy. It is, however, better than posturing and panic.The deaths of Charlene Ellis and Latisha Shakespear were both random and foretold; an aberration and a commonplace. Awareness, not hysteria, is the proper anthem to their lives. No wonder society has not solved ghetto violence. Until last week, it had barely noticed its existence. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk