A teenager who was stabbed to death outside a party organised by an anti-violence charity in London had run away from his foster home in Blackpool earlier the same day, it emerged today.Stephen Lewis was killed on Saturday – two weeks before his 16th birthday – after suffering stab wounds to his chest outside the event at St Cedd's church hall in Plaistow, east London. It was the first violent death of a teenager in the capital this year.It emerged that he had been under the care of Newham council, which had placed the 15-year-old with carers in Blackpool. He was reported missing on the morning of the attack."Stephen had been housed in Blackpool by his local authority in Newham, London," said a spokesman for Lancashire constabulary."He had been missing from home the previous weekend and had been found in London. Inquiries were carried out by officers to locate him but sadly in the early hours of Sunday we were informed of his tragic death in London."Stephen was stabbed several times in the chest in Whitwell Road, Plaistow, at about 10.45pm on Saturday. He was pronounced dead in hospital.Police said a large gang was seen in the area around the time of the attack and witnesses reported fights breaking out within the venue.Two boys, aged 16 and 17, were arrested on suspicion of murder and are being held for questioning.Detective Chief Inspector Simon Moring said: "What we know is that there was a party that finished at about 10.30pm. I think there were a lot of people here on the street. It would be difficult for me to give a precise number but … maybe even up to 100."He added: "I'm open-minded as to what the motive might be. Clearly this is a tragic stabbing of a young man who was in the prime of his life, who was just 15 years old. Absolutely tragic."Stephen's mother, Sharon, arrived with a large family group to lay flowers at the scene yesterday.Crying and hugging her relatives, she said: "My boy, my boy. Stupid night out. For what?"An aunt of the victim, who said her name was Michelle added: "Everybody loved him. They are going to miss him."Two women who said wished to be remain anonymous but said they were part of Stephen's extended family said his brother and sister had been with him when he died and his sister was holding him after he was stabbed.The Rev Eugeniah Adoyo, vicar of St Philip and St James' Church, which adjoins the church hall where the anti-violence event took place, said: "I just think it's dreadful. Knife crime has got out of hand. It's meant to be a charity that deals with violence among black people, specifically youths."