The UK's economy will suffer "profound effects" if the growing threat of cyber crime is not tackled, warns one of the UK's most senior police officers.Janet Williams, deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan police and the Association of Chief Police Officers' lead on cyber crime, says online fraudsters and hackers will cause a fall in the value of shares, pensions and business investments if they are not stopped.The government upgraded cyber crime to a tier one threat in October, putting it on the same level as international terrorism or a flu pandemic. It has set aside £650m to combat the threat.Williams told the Guardian that £30m of the funding will be used to set up regional e-crime units which will more thoroughly police the "dark side" of the internet.While larger companies can afford blanket protection from computer criminals, and the national infrastructure receives an "extremely good" protection service, Williams warns that smaller businesses, universities and individuals are still dangerously exposed to criminal rings from around the world looking to steal everything from cash and identities to intellectual property."We are very concerned at the extent and growth of cyber crime. It is getting to be an increasingly larger problem," said Williams. "The agencies policing this are bringing all of their skills and capacity to the table to fight this. If we don't, it will have such a profound effect on share prices, on investment, and on how much the government has to spend on pensions. It is big stuff."A Cabinet Office report released two weeks ago and written in conjunction with private firm Detica, a subsidiary of weapons manufacturer BAE Systems, estimated cyber crime losses at £27bn.Williams conceded there were real problems with collecting cyber crime data but she said £27bn was a conservative estimate of the losses.She drew attention to the increasing youth of online fraudsters and her fears that e-criminals, including politically motivated hackers or 'hacktivists', may be too readily sucked into breaking the law because of a lack of human interaction.An eight-month operation by the police services central e-crime unit, codenamed Pagode, discovered in early 2010 that five British teenagers, including two females, were running the world's largest English-language website for selling stolen identities and credit card details.The site, Gh0stMarket.net, could only be viewed as lines of computer commands mixed with 'text-speak' English. It had more than 8,000 members. Police estimated £16.2m of financial losses resulted from the 135,000 compromised card numbers found on the site.Four of the gang were sentenced at Southwark crown court on Wednesday to jail terms of 18 months to five years.Williams said: "I describe what these very young people were operating as a kind of supermarket for criminals. You had thousands of customers purchasing illicit goods, like packs of stolen identities and instructions for defrauding major organisations. So it was like they came with a shopping trolley in order to load up what they would like. And they got paid quite huge amounts of money for that service."Williams described the teenagers running the Gh0stMarket site as very bright and very well educated but queried whether they were fully aware of their actions. "[Their age] is very concerning. I wonder whether they completely appreciate the impact of what they've done."The e-crime unit, which Williams helped establish in 2008, was involved in last month's arrests of three teenagers and two 20-year-olds from the political group Anonymous.Members of the group are known to have created, and distributed computer software to take down the websites of multinational companies deemed as being hostile towards WikiLeaks.Drawing a similarity between the Gh0stMarket gang and the Anonymous protesters, Williams said that in both cases the internet had created an "echo-chamber" where individual actions were not readily questioned. This made it easier for young people to get sucked into criminal behaviour."If we talk about Anonymous, people were downloading software voluntarily in order to attack another organisation. Allowing your computer to be used in that way is a criminal offence but I'm not sure that people realise that. I think a lot of people thought they were engaged in online protest and didn't appreciate the potential impact on them and the potential of what they were allowing their computers to be used for. If they would have had to have a face-to-face contact conversation, they would have questioned that more," said Williams."Human contact gives you thinking time and enables you to question what you are doing. But sometimes these websites almost act like an echo chamber. There is no testing of what you are seeing … It is not an intellectual exchange, it is just download. I think it is quite a dangerous thing."Williamssaid she had seen no evidence that cyber criminals operating in different parts of the world were receiving state support."Sitting in this seat, I have read the secret intelligence but, in terms of the cyber investigations, very little we have seen has had that link. We have seen a great deal of criminal activity in Russia, Ukraine, eastern Europe but we have absolutely no evidence [that it is state sponsored]."Williams said the e-crime unit was now returning £21 in "harm return" for every pound invested and had justified the multimillion-pound rise in funding by "proving its business case".