Brian Paddick is a rebel in an organisation whose raison d'être is order. The highest ranking openly gay police officer has become a hero for those who believe the police should become more liberal, and a hate figure for traditionalists and homophobes.This week Commander Paddick experienced a Lazarus-like career recovery when he was promoted to be the Metropolitan police's acting deputy assistant commissioner. He is part of the senior leadership of Britain's biggest police force, and now there is talk that he could one day be a chief constable. It is all the more amazing because of last year's professional and personal humiliation. He was moved out of his dream job as commander of the south London borough of Lambeth after a former lover claimed the officer had smoked cannabis. He was later cleared of the most serious claims. What put rocket boosters under the allegations was that Mr Paddick was leading an experiment in Lambeth which encouraged officers to warn those caught with cannabis for personal use, instead of arresting them. Under the pilot scheme police would confiscate the drug, saving hours of an officer's time that would otherwise have been spent on bureaucracy if an arrest were made. Mr Paddick was the public face of the scheme and rightwing tabloids accused him of going soft on drugs, and the fruits of the experiment are still debated. But in Lambeth Mr Paddick was admired in a way few police officers in modern times have been by the public they serve. When he took command, the police were distrusted in the poor borough, which has high crimes rates and is ethnically diverse. At its heart is Brixton, the scene of riots over the past two decades. But Paddick's personal style and openness has not just neutralised critics, it has made them fans. The cannabis scheme was a response to community demands for police to stop chasing kids with small lumps of cannabis, and instead to concentrate on class A drugs that are accompanied by crime. Paul Amdell, of the Lambeth police consultative committee said: "When he spoke at a meeting in the town hall in Brixton, it was the first time the community gave a senior police officer a standing ovation. He had them rolling around in peals of laughter with the borough commander rather than at the borough commander. He is a warm and friendly person, very human. He builds confidence, people trust him." As part of his attempt to engage the local community he went on a radical website, Urban75.com, to debate policing. His comments about finding the idea of anarchism attractive angered police chiefs and led the rightwing tabloids to brand him "Commander Crackpot". After news of his promotion this week the website hummed with public debate. One user wrote: "Don't really care where in the ranks of pigs he is, as long as he does his job well and speaks up for the little folks." Another user replied: "I do. Because the promotion appears to send the message to the Daily Mail: fuck you." If so, the paper is going down screaming. Yesterday the Daily Mail found a Met source who said of the promotion: "This is a good way of keeping Brian quiet. A lot of senior officers are unhappy about this." Mr Amdell says of the backlash: "Anybody who is going to try innovative methods is going to be open to criticism from the more traditional elements." Mr Amdell says he would welcome Mr Paddick's return. "When Brian was forced to leave, we were getting packed halls, there were T-shirts, petitions in pubs - it was phenomenal. There has been nothing like it before or since." The allegations that led to Mr Paddick's ousting from Lambeth came from his former partner of five years, James Renolleau. Paid £100,000 by the Mail on Sunday, he claimed Mr Paddick had permitted him to smoke cannabis in the flat the couple shared and had flouted Met rules by not telling his bosses that Mr Renolleau was on bail facing criminal charges. Mr Paddick denies the newspaper's claims. His vehement denials about allegations that he himself had smoked cannabis were vindicated in November 2002 when he found out that he would not face criminal or disciplinary charges. In rebuilding his career he had allies, including fellow officers and Ken Livingstone, the mayor of London. Lee Jasper, the mayor's leading adviser on policing and equality, said Mr Paddick was one of the finest officers he has ever met: "He understands the necessity to have a listening ear, and to be genuinely transparent and honest, including at times of crisis." He was too valuable an officer to lose, says Mr Jasper: "Because of his accessibility, his willingness to respond, people began to believe he was really seeking to police by consent, and that endeared him greatly. When he could not do things he would explain why. He trusted the community and they trusted him." Mr Jasper admits that Mr Paddick's honesty and transparency can also be weaknesses. "He's a strongly extrovert character and that can often lead him to speaking without thinking and that can get him into trouble." Mr Paddick is relaxed enough to laugh at himself and told a gay magazine: "My last staff officer got promoted and went to royalty protection. In his leaving card I wrote, 'Same job, different Queen'." He was not always so comfortable with his sexuality. The son of a plastics salesman and a building society secretary, Mr Paddick was born in south London. During his adolescence he was tormented by his homosexuality and bullied by other children who realised he was gay. He joined the Met at the age of 18 in 1976. He had two failed engagements before getting married which he says he did to cover up his sexuality. He told one interviewer: "I broke off the relationship because it wasn't working and came home very upset. Mum said, 'Oh, what is the matter?' And I rather dramatically placed the engagement ring on the coffee table. And mum said, 'Thank God for that; I thought you were going to tell me you were queer'."' Mr Paddick's former wife shows no bitterness towards him, and at the height of last year's investigation she spoke out in his defence. Mr Paddick took a break from policing to study politics, philosophy and economics at Oxford. He has a criminology diploma from Cambridge University and even his critics concede that he is bright. As he rose through the ranks he finally came out. It was a decision that came at some cost and Mr Paddick feels his sexuality and views have made him a target for other officers. On the day he was promoted to commander in November 2000 an anonymous note was sent to his bosses claiming he had misused a police vehicle. Another time someone rang a crime hotline with a false tip-off that Mr Paddick had forewarned a gay bar he frequents in London's Soho, about a drugs raid. In an Observer interview last week, Mr Paddick said he had not known whether he could get through his ordeal. "Everything has consequences. You take decisions and live with the consequences. Thankfully, I've been given the constitution to survive the consequences. Many people end up destroyed. But you don't know until it happens to you whether you'll survive or not." There has been talk of Mr Paddick suing the force for its treatment of him and after he was cleared of drug taking he seemed set for a confrontation, saying it was a return to Lambeth or bust. Instead, he settled for a compromise. Those who have observed Mr Paddick believe he has decided to be less high profile in the hope of being judged on his policing skills instead of being a whipping boy for the traditionalists. Mr Jasper said: "He's thought about the media exposure he had and obviously decided it would be better if he kept radio silence. His recent promotion has probably proved him right. "I think he's a lot wiser because of his experience. It's just apparent he's reflected on his experience and changed his approach. He's more cautious and has been very successful in rescuing his career." Mr Paddick, now 45, is just three years from being able to retire on a full police pension. His promotion to deputy assistant commissioner is temporary, lasting just two months. In January he can apply for the permanent position. On Urban75 people are rooting for him, one user saying about his promotion: "Innovative, intelligent policing has got it's reward. I'm amazed to be honest." Mr Paddick is one of those rare police officers who becomes more than just a uniform. He provokes emotion, he really means something to people in Lambeth and to Britain's gay community. Alan Wardle, of the gay rights group Stonewall said: "The fact he is so senior and visible sends out an important message that there are no no-go areas for gay and lesbian people in British society." Mr Paddick will know that alongside admiration for what he has achieved, some of his own colleagues are willing him to fail whatever he does.   Born April 1956, Balham, south London  Education Bec grammar school, Tooting Bec, London; Sutton Manor high school, Sutton, Surrey  Career Constable, Metropolitan police 1976; sergeant, Brixton 1981; inspector, Fulham 1983; chief inspector, personnel dept, New Scotland Yard 1986; Warwick Business School 1989-90; staff officer, 1991; chief inspector, Brixton 1993; officer in charge of CID, Notting Hill 1995; superintendent, personnel dept, New Scotland Yard 1996; chief superintendent 1997; borough commander, Merton 1997-99; Police Staff College 2000; borough commander, Lambeth 2001-2002; overseeing seven boroughs in north-west London 2002-3  Paddick on life "The concept of anarchism has always appealed"  Paddick on Paddick "What has my sexuality got to do with my ability?"  Stephen Warwick, Lesbian and Gay Police Association "The politics of the police make it difficult to take initiatives for fear of damaging your career"