Paul Condon strikes me as a decent man. Since his appointment six years ago he has rooted out some corruption in his force, he has launched a few race-equality initiatives, and has often spoken about the need to improve relations with London's ethnic-minority population.Despite his little glitches, most notably his ill-chosen words over anti-street crime Operation Eagle Eye ('in a significant proportion of robberies in London the people who are committing them happen to be black'), there is little doubt that policing has improved during his term in office. Hence, not surprisingly, many people believe he is the right man or woman to implement the changes recommended by the Stephen Lawrence Inquiry. Read any of this morning's papers and you're sure to find glowing reports of his career to date. But what matters now is not the opinions of 'leading social commentators'. Above all, the Lawrence report is about racism, and those who need convincing that real change is coming are its victims: namely, the capital's - and the country's - black and Asian population. Its experiences of the police have been mentioned before, but they are worth repeating . In Britain, a black person is nearly eight times more likely to be stopped and searched than a white; nearly five times more likely to be arrested; and nearly seven times more likely to die as a result of police actions. All these findings have taken place while Paul Condon has been Commissioner, and his own area has fared little better than the national average. Do you really expect people who have suffered all the above to believe that the same man can bring about radical changes to his organisation? No doubt Condon has been courageous in introducing his reforms so far, but the fact is they are not enough. He has fought with his own Police Federation - a powerful group which the Guardian itself has battled with in court. But can a man who carries the taint of six years of compromising with this Neanderthal group really be trusted to carry the torch for a bright new era? Giving his evidence to the Inquiry, Condon was frightened to call his own force institutionally racist, because of the prospect of a backlash by his officers. What a shame, then, that it didn't fuss him to label black people criminal. David Wilmot, Greater Manchester's Chief Constable, exposed Condon's inertia by admitting his own force was guilty of the charge - without, it seems, undermining his officers' confidence. Again, probably for internal-politics reasons, Condon was happy to sanction the findings of an internal review into the original Lawrence investigation. A review which, according to the Lawrence Inquiry, 'without the benefit of hindsight... should have generated questions from senior officers which may have uncovered the difficulties which have substantially been revealed in this investigation'. Would you trust this man with your justice enforcement? The huge measures necessary to turn around decades of anguish at the hands of the police, cannot be left to someone who has shown he is well behind the pace. What we need now is a new face, with the energy to drive through radical reform, who can lay down the law and tell his officers that the New Met starts now. Surely there has to be some senior officer with the necessary reforming zeal somewhere in the country? If not, this would be a greater indictment of British policing than even the Lawrence report could uncover. Condon's retention would undermine the black population's confidence that, at last, something positive and far-reaching will be done. It would prevent senior community figures from giving wholehearted backing to the new-look force. And this has consequences far beyond the Met. Imagine what white society would be like if it couldn't trust its police. If whites were stopped each time they went out in a decent car, how would they feel about reporting crime to the same people? How would criminals respond if they knew there was little attempt to gain convictions? How long before youngsters began to see criminals as outlaws fighting an unjust system? This vicious cycle has already begun in certain parts of inner-city Britain. But now is the time to undo 50 years of failure. Now is the time to seize the moment and convince people that the law really can be just; that the sight of police officers need not be feared; and that all can have the chance to play a part in enforcing the law. What we do not need over the next few days is a Commissioner at the centre of a new wave of criticism, lurching from one rapid-rebuttal to another. Ultimately, these reforms are about far more than just one man. Most of the other inquiry recommendations must be implemented, with regular monitoring of their progress. But as for the man at the top: sorry, Paul, you've just got to go. 