The killing of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence was carried out by five like-minded white youths motivated by nothing more than racial animosity and the colour of his skin, an Old Bailey jury has been told on the opening of a murder trial the dead boy's family have waited 18 years to witness.On a day of drama at the central criminal court in London, the jury was taken back to the night in April 1993 when the life of the promising A-level student was cut short by a group of white youths, who with a shout of "what, what nigger" rushed Lawrence, overwhelmed him, forced him to the ground and thrust a knife twice into his body. Each knife wound, one in the right collar bone, the second in the left shoulder, severed an artery."The only discernible reason for the attack was the colour of his skin," prosecuting counsel Mark Ellison, QC, told the jury in court 16."The way in which the attack was executed indicates that this group were a group of like-minded young, white men who acted together and reacted together. They shared the same racial animosity and motivation."With the two defendants – Gary Dobson and David Norris, who deny murder – sitting in the dock above him, Stephen Lawrence's father Neville appeared unable to listen. Now grey and slightly stooped by age, he stood up and left the courtroom, leaving the boy's mother Doreen and their only surviving son Stuart to take in the proceedings.After a previous court hearing, a public inquest, a public inquiry and at least two police investigations, the key to the prosecution case against Dobson and Norris was new scientific evidence – made up of fibres, blood and hair – that had not been available in the past, Ellison said.The jury was told:• Sixteen fibres and one tiny bloodstain put Dobson at the scene of the murder, according to the crown.• The bloodstain on the collar of a jacket owned by Dobson provided an almost full DNA profile of Lawrence.• There was a less than a one in one billion chance that the blood found on the jacket was not that of the dead boy.• There was "extremely strong evidence" showing that seven fibres and two black hairs found on two items of Norris's clothing also came from Lawrence. "The evidence was discovered for the first time during a cold case review that began in 2007," said Ellison. "Were it not for the new scientific findings, it would still be the case that there would be no reliable evidence to support the prosecution of anyone."The crown's case is that the only reasonable inference to be drawn from the combination of new findings ... is that the material discovered on each of the defendant's clothes, seized 15 days after the murder, indicates that they must have been members of the group that attacked Stephen Lawrence that night and that they are guilty of his murder."The defence for Dobson, 36, and Norris, 35, rejected the claims. Counsel for the men said the microscopic evidence which the crown relied upon came from contamination of the exhibits when the garments were with the police and scientists over the last 18 years. "The whole system of producing and preserving the integrity of the clothing exhibits in this case was unsafe," said Tim Roberts, QC for Dobson. He also said that a police sergeant motivated by "spite" had tampered with the evidence as he created a chronology of the handling of the exhibits.Earlier Ellison had described the attack on Stephen Lawrence, aged 18, which took place as he waited with his friend Duwayne Brooks at a bus stop in Eltham, south London, at 10.35pm on 22 April 1993.As the teenagers walked up and down Well Hall Road in search of a bus, five white youths began crossing the road close to them. Brooks heard one of them shout: "What, what nigger," and at the same time the group of five charged at the two young black men."Run," Brooks told Lawrence, but the youths chased the teenagers, catching them up at the junction of Dickson Road and Well Hall Road, the court heard. Slightly ahead of Lawrence, Brooks managed to make it back to the bus stop, before turning round and shouting to his friend: "'Get up and run, Steve."But Lawrence did not manage to get away. "The group quickly surrounded him ... he was swallowed up by the weight of their number and simply forced to the ground," said Ellison.In the following seconds Lawrence was stabbed twice, once in the right collarbone as he was standing, and a second time in the left shoulder, probably as he lay prone at their feet on the ground."This group had attacked as one," said Ellison. "The stab wounds were inflicted and then they decamped as one."Bleeding profusely, Lawrence was able to run some way up Well Hall Road. "He ran a distance of 220 yards from where he had been stabbed. There he collapsed on the pavement opposite the junction … never to get up again."As he spoke Doreen Lawrence's composure cracked for a few seconds, and there were tears in her eyes.Clasping a cup of water she stared ahead as the jury was told how Lawrence was pronounced dead just before midnight in hospital.The case continues.