The murder of three young men in Birmingham, in what police are treating as a deliberate hit-and-run attack as they tried to defend their community against the looters, marks a new low point in the destruction of the web of mutual obligation that allows society to prosper. Britain's second city is facing the terrible risk that racial violence will add an even more explosive element to the violent disorder that has spread around the country over the past four nights. With great dignity, Tariq Jahan, father of Haroon – at 21, the youngest of the three victims – appealed for calm. So did the area's MP, Shabana Mahmood, and the Bishop of Aston, Rt Rev Andrew Watson. If their calls are not heeded, David Cameron will be facing a much graver problem of interracial violence. If this happened, the fury of the disposessed that underlies this week's unforgivable looting would pale as a social problem in comparison. It is easy to be sceptical about the importance of parliament. Today, the tone and the language the prime minister finds to address the challenges he faces needs to shape the national mood.There is universal condemnation of the looters. There is no "bloody good hiding" moment, as there was after the 1985 Broadwater Farm riots when Bernie Grant attacked the police. Across class, age and ethnicity, empathy is almost entirely lacking. Of course it is. Desperately needed jobs have gone, family businesses have been destroyed, young families have been left homeless and now three – four, counting a shooting in Croydon – lives have been lost. All this to indulge a mad consumerist greed. On the steps of Downing Street yesterday, Mr Cameron echoed the anger and disbelief he has heard in the 24 hours since he returned from his holiday. He sounded, as he needed to, like a leader taking charge as he endorsed the use of baton rounds and even water cannon if the police thought they were necessary. He rightly stressed that his priority was to restore order. (Birmingham could all too readily show what failure might mean). He condemned the lack of responsibility, the sense of entitlement and the impunity that allowed people to detach themselves from morality. All of this is an understandable response. It is what many people are thinking, magnified on countless tweets and innumerable blogs: a kind of national vigilantism on the rise. It should not be encouraged.Of course it is understandable, even admirable, that people are ready to defend their neighbourhoods, as the three murdered men wanted to do. It is hard to sneer at the newly formed Enfield defence force, at least while it is just an ad hoc group in white T-shirts, and not racist elements hijacking a local group. But Mr Cameron has to move the country on. There are good reasons why security is done by the state. The police need the means and the public support to enable them, and them alone, to do their job. That is the first point Mr Cameron must make. The second is much tougher, particularly since his attack yesterday on a society that was "not just broken but sick" was enthusiastically received by longstanding critics. He needs to revisit the spirit that animated his 2006 hug-a-hoodie speech. He was right then to warn of the degree of social injustice in Britain, the insecurity it causes and the fear that insecurity provokes. He should reflect on the murder rate, the rape rate and the 30% long-term youth unemployment in the communities that have been disfigured by rioting, and he might dwell on the impact on the poorest in society of a whole generation encouraged to borrow and to buy.Ed Miliband too has a tough day ahead. Tories have been unscrupulous in trying to present the opposition as apologists for violence. It is – as Harriet Harman tried to say on Tuesday's Newsnight – much more complex than a question of cuts. It is not all about politics. It is not, it is clear from the overworked courts, just about poverty. But nor is it only getting the lid back on and walking away.• This article was amended on 11 August 2011. In the original the Bishop of Aston was misnamed as Anthony Watson. This has been corrected.