Detectives investigating the death of a 15-year-old boy who was left in a burning skip said today that the incident was being treated as murder.Michael Temperley, of Oakwood Avenue, Gateshead, was found inside the large container at the Team Valley retail park in Gateshead at around 8pm last night.He was rushed to hospital suffering from severe burns but died in the early hours of this morning with his family by his side.Two youths, aged 15 and 16, were arrested at the scene and were today being questioned by detectives, police said.At a press conference at Whickham police station, Detective Superintendent Tony Thornton said: "We are now treating it as murder."He added: "About 8 o'clock last night fire services were called to the rear of a shop in the Team Valley area."The call came in saying that there was a skip on fire. When fire services arrived, they found that there was a male who was severely injured at that time. He was obviously suffering from burns and the effects of smoke and the heat."Mr Thornton added that staff at the Queen Elizabeth hospital, where he was treated, did all they could to save him.He continued: "It is difficult to understand how awful it must be for the family but anybody can see it is tragic. As you can imagine, his family are absolutely devastated."The scene of the murder had been sealed off and would be subjected to a thorough forensic investigation, Mr Thornton said. The detective refused to comment on reports that the fire had been started by a cigarette thrown into the skip.Michael lived at home with his mother, father and 19-year-old brother and attended the Joseph Swan school in Gateshead.This morning at the scene, three BMX bicycles were left discarded around the skip, as well as a number of pallets.The skip is on the site of a vast retail park just off the busy A1, is surrounded by factories and other industrial premises. Workers at a neighbouring car parts plant expressed their shock at the news."When we came into work, we saw it all cordoned off. We just heard that it was a kid in a skip. I don't know if it is just a prank gone wrong. I've got a son of 16. I know what they are like when they are that age," said Patrick King, 46."When you hear something like that, it's terrible. The nightshift saw the lad and the ambulance crew trying to resuscitate him," he added, suggesting that flammable materials dumped by nearby businesses may have been in the skip.Paul Fowerby, 38, a machine shop manager at the same factory, said: "You see kids hanging around the industrial estate on their bikes, setting up pallets for ramps and things like that. You see them all around the estate."Police said today that at the time of the incident several shops would have remained open and staff would have been on premises not far from the scene of the fire.A post mortem examination was being carried today out on the teenager's body and an incident room has been set up at Whickham police station.· Anyone with information has been asked to call Gateshead West CID on 0191 454 7555, ext 64343 or 64344.