 Late on Wednesday November 1 2006, Suffolk police received a call from Kerry Nicol, a cleaner from Ipswich.She had not heard from her 19-year-old daughter, Tania, since she left their small terraced home the previous evening, and she had begun to get worried. A missing person investigation was launched and the next day officers appealed for information about the teenager.They had learned what Kerry Nicol did not know: that for the past few weeks Tania had been selling sex on the streets of Ipswich. They had no idea they had embarked on the biggest ever investigation in the county force's history that, by the time Steve Wright was charged with murder 51 days later, had involved 600 officers from almost every force in the country. Exactly a fortnight later, the family of Gemma Adams, 25, reported her missing; her body was found on December 2 in a brook at Hintlesham, west of Ipswich. Divers from Norfolk police were called in; after searching for six days they found Tania Nicol's body two miles downstream. It was not until two days later that officers recognised they were dealing with something unprecedented. A member of the public had found a naked body in woodland in Nacton, south of the town. It was Anneli Alderton, 24, a prostitute. She had not been reported missing, although two other women, police said the next day, had been: Annette Nicholls, 29, and Paula Clennell, 24. Their bodies were found the next day, on December 12.It was clear, according to Detective Chief Superintendent Stewart Gull, who was leading the inquiry that the Suffolk force was in "completely uncharted territory".Five separate incident rooms were now in operation at the force HQ in Martlesham Heath, near Felixstowe, and around 3,000 people per day were calling the incident line with information. To cope with the volume, a system called Miriweb was established to link to other forces, while vehicles and officers from almost 40 forces across the country maintained a highly visible presence in the town. "Every day there would be a development and there was constant pressure to make quick decisions to keep the investigation moving" said Gull, who was the duty superintendent in charge when the bodies of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were found near Lakenheath, Suffolk, in August 2002."We were faced with a mammoth task," said Gull. A total of 176 sites were searched around Ipswich, around 1,500 door-to-door inquiries made. Almost 11,000 hours of CCTV footage were scrutinised, revealing footage of Anneli Alderton making a train journey to her home in Colchester. Other sex workers in the town were interviewed about their clients - and told to stay indoors.As the manhunt progressed, a number of individuals had come under closer scrutiny. One man, Tom Stephens, had contacted police shortly after Tania Nicols went missing, and did so again repeatedly in the coming weeks. He was placed under police surveillance on November 9 and 10, and would be arrested and questioned about the murders on December 18. He has not been charged.The gathering pace of events was yielding more and more evidence. In particular, the killer appeared to be taking less care to cover his tracks. Investigators suspected the decision to abandon the first two bodies in water had been to minimise the amount of recoverable DNA, but the other three bodies were dumped in woodland. The same DNA was recovered from each. On December 17, officers made the crucial breakthrough; the DNA was identified as that of Steve Wright, a local resident and a known habitual client of sex workers, who had been added to the national crime database in 2002 after being convicted of stealing £80 from a pub till. He was immediately placed under covert surveillance.Early the following morning he was arrested. On December 20 he was charged with all five murders.