The prisons and probation ombudsman has launched an investigation into the death of a woman who hanged herself in her prison cell six days after giving birth to a baby girl and shortly after being taken off suicide watch.Michelle Barnes, 33, killed herself in a prison in Durham after being told by guards that her daughter would be taken into care, her partner has claimed.He said the mother-of-three had feared she would never see her daughter again and had become “increasingly distressed” in the hours before she took her own life.He claimed that she told prison guards she was “planning to harm herself” on the day she died.Questions are now being asked about how a woman with a history of psychological problems was not immediately put back on suicide watch despite expressing suicidal thoughts.Barnes’s death comes as the prime minister announced sweeping reforms across the prison system and an urgent rethink in the way the prison system in England and Wales treats pregnant women and mothers with babies.At present, when a woman gives birth while serving a custodial sentence, she is usually transferred to a prison’s mother-and-baby unit (MBU) for an initial period. It was unclear whether Barnes was going to be transferred to one.A government review will look at whether female offenders with babies could be dealt with by special problem-solving courts, housed in resettlement units or electronically tagged, rather than being locked up.Barnes, from Carlisle, was jailed for two years in July last year after pleading guilty to offences related to her home being used by dealers involved in the distribution of class A drugs. It was her first offence.Barnes had two other children, aged three and 13, who live with their grandparents in Carlisle. Her partner, Charles Campbell, said she gave birth to another baby girl on 10 December 2015. She pleaded with them not to leave her alone that night because she said she would hurt herself, but they did Barnes, who gave birth via a caesarean section, spent five days with her newborn child before being transferred back to the psychiatric unit at Low Newton prison, Durham.On 16 December, Barnes allegedly had a conversation with a prison guard about an impending court case regarding care proceedings for her baby.Barnes was hoping to be transferred to an MBU following the court hearing due to take place on 17 December.But it has been claimed that she was told by a prison guard that she “would never see her daughter again”. It is said that Barnes became distressed after this conversation and told officers that she was planning to harm herself, yet she was not put back on to suicide watch.All of the allegations have been put to the Ministry of Justice. It has confirmed that the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman was investigating Barnes’s death.Campbell, 55, said: “She had been on suicide watch the month before, where they would go into her room every 15 minutes to check on her.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘We should seek to divert more women away from the criminal justice system,’ said Labour’s shadow justice secretary, Lord Falconer. Photograph: Andrew Fox/Alamy“It is utterly bizarre that a woman who had already been on suicide watch wasn’t put back on after having her daughter taken away and explicitly telling guards that she was intending on hanging herself.”But six days after giving birth Barnes was found dead in her cell. An inquest has been opened.Campbell said: “I cannot understand why she was no longer on suicide watch. She was being watched the month but not after having the baby. She had talked about harming herself but they didn’t seem to take it seriously.“Something has gone wrong here and it needs to be highlighted. They told her that she would never see her daughter again, but she hadn’t even been to the hearing.“She pleaded with them not to leave her alone that night because she said she would hurt herself, but they did. Someone will have to answer for this.“If we can stop this from happening to one more person than it will have been worth it.”Barnes was one of five people jailed for a total of more than 17 years at Carlisle crown court in July 2015 for conspiracy to supply class A drugs in Carlisle. Barnes, Lee Walsh, Idris Vickers, Andrew Wallace and Lee Gillon were charged after police searched two houses in Carlisle on 9 January 2015. More than £3,000 worth of heroin and cocaine were seized, as well as almost £1,000 in cash, drugs paraphernalia and numerous mobile phones. It is worrying the government is still burying its head in the sand when it comes to the state of our prisons  Campbell said Barnes had depression and anxiety following the breakdown of her marriage and “ended up mixing with the wrong crowd”.He said: “She was a middle-class kid who had taken quite a few knocks in life and got in with the wrong sort. She loved her children but she was struggling with life and they were being looked after by her parents.“I went to see her regularly and she was looking forward to having the baby and we had talked about raising her together and fighting the authorities to make sure that we got custody.”Earlier this week, Labour’s shadow justice secretary, Lord Falconer, said: “With an estimated 200,000 children affected by parental imprisonment, many of whom are more likely to have mental health problems and to be involved in offending, it is right that we urgently look at the way the criminal justice system treats pregnant women and mothers with children. “It is also right that we should look at alternatives to custody for low-level offenders and, as Labour has long argued, we should also build on the success of the youth justice model to seek to divert more women away from the criminal justice system. “But we have heard many of David Cameron’s promises before and it is worrying that the government is still burying its head in the sand when it comes to the state our prisons are in. “Violent, overcrowded prisons will never be able to rehabilitate offenders and ministers must urgently address the crisis in our prisons.”We must reduce the number of women in prisons  Since January this year, there have been 11 suicides in prisons. Last year there were 256 deaths in prisons in England and Wales – 89 of those were suicides.  Prison suicides in England and Wales have risen to the highest level for eight years, with 89 prisoners taking their own lives last year, according to new figures. Frances Crook, chief executive of the Howard League for Penal Reform, criticised the “alarmingly” high rate.  She said: “No one should be so desperate while they are in the care of the state that they take their own life. The numbers hide the true extent of misery for prisoners and families – and for staff, who have been given the impossible task of keeping people safe in overcrowded prisons starved of resources.“The question now for the Ministry of Justice is: what to do? This level of deaths, violence and anguish in prisons cannot continue to rise in a civilised society. We cannot go on cramming more people into jails without any thought for the consequences.”A Prison Service spokesperson said: “[Michelle Barnes] was found unresponsive in her cell at 11.11pm on 16 December 2015.“Staff immediately attempted resuscitation but she was pronounced dead shortly after.“As with all deaths in custody, the independent prisons and probation ombudsman will conduct an investigation.” • This article was amended on 10 February 2016. An earlier version said the Ministry of Justice had launched an inquiry into Michelle Barnes’s death. It is the prisons and probation ombudsman that is conducting the investigation.