A 61-year-old former handyman was formally charged yesterday with the murder of the Scottish teenager Vicky Hamilton, 16 years after she disappeared close to her home in Bathgate, West Lothian.Hamilton's remains were found on Monday, buried in a pit in the back garden of a house in Margate, Kent. Peter Tobin had been charged in July with involvement in her disappearance. He is known to have lived in the house.The girl's father, Michael, had to be restrained by friends and police officers as the prison van carrying Tobin was driven from Linlithgow sheriff court, West Lothian. He had earlier walked slowly in front of the van as it arrived at the court, accompanied by a police officer.In a statement, Vicky's uncle Eric Hamilton said her father was happy "the long road" might be coming to an end. "All we are wanting to do is to have peace, and to get on with putting Vicky where she belongs." Earlier, Vicky's sister Sharon, whom the teenager had been visiting shortly before she disappeared, said the years of uncertainty had been "torture" for the family. "Our family has been torn to pieces by this. The first time my mum got rest was the day she died." Vicky's mother, Janette, died in 1993 aged 41.Tobin entered no plea at the private hearing, and was returned to custody. He is expected to appear in court again next week.Vicky Hamilton was last seen in the early evening of February 10 1991, eating chips while waiting at a bus stop. Her disappearance prompted one of Scotland's biggest missing person inquiries; a cold case review by Lothian and Borders police last November led to the case being upgraded to a murder inquiry.Police yesterday continued to search the house in Irvine Drive, Margate, for the body of another missing teenager, Dinah McNicol, who disappeared in August 1991. Officers from Essex police initiated the search of the house on Monday morning after receiving information that the young woman's body might be buried there.Police said yesterday that 30% of the garden and concrete first floor of the house had been excavated, focusing on areas identified by radar scanning equipment, and that two sheds had been removed from the back garden. The ground search was expected to take until the weekend, a spokeswoman said, after which it would move into the rest of the house, including the loft, to look for "any physical or forensic evidence that Dinah has been there".McNicol, originally from Tillingham, Essex, was 18 when she disappeared while hitchhiking home from a music festival.Asked about speculation that more bodies might be uncovered at the property, the police spokeswoman said: "Essex police went to the house to look for the remains of Dinah ... Clearly if evidence is found relating to anyone else this will be handled appropriately." The mood of the forensic team was "as upbeat as it can be under the circumstances," she said.