The ramifications of yesterday's ruling in the appeal court that evidence obtained by torture should be admissible in the UK are awesome. We have warned before of the way in which Britain's "Guantánamo Bay" law erodes the most fundamental principles of the nation's criminal justice system. Under the 2001 Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act, rushed through parliament following the al-Qaida attack on the US, foreign suspects can be detained indefinitely without charge or trial. Yesterday's verdict goes much further, by eroding fundamental principles of international law.The case before the court was an appeal by 10 foreign nationals detained under the act more than two years ago. Their lawyers were attempting to overturn the decision by the commission set up to hear appeals, which upheld the government's decision to detain them. Lawyers for the detainees argued they should never have been held because some of the evidence on which the Home Secretary had acted had been obtained by the US holding other detainees under conditions of torture. The court rejected this claim, with Lord Justice Laws declaring: "It is plain to my satisfaction that there was no evidence in any of the appeals that any material relied on by the secretary of state had in fact been obtained by torture." But the court did not stop there. It went on to examine if it would be permissible in principle for the commission to look at evidence extracted by torture. Strip away the fine gradations of interpretation that are woven into most judgments from the second highest court in the land, and what is left is a 2-1 majority decision that evidence produced by torture would be admissible in such cases as long as Britain had not "procured or connived" at the torture. Gareth Peirce, solicitor for the detainees, was right to describe this decision as "terrifying". She was not exaggerating when she declared that it showed "we have completely lost our way in this country legally and morally". This is a decision that totally ignores a succession of international treaty obligations, one of which, the European Convention on Human Rights, the UK was instrumental in drafting. Do not be confused by Britain's decision to opt out of this convention in order to implement the 2001 act. In terms of torture, there is no opt-out. All that opting out allowed was the decision to detain foreign terrorist suspects without charge or trial. The judgment breaches both the UN convention against torture and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. True, there is no international court to which the UK can be taken with the new judge-made British law. True, even if there was, the UK could argue that, although we have signed the UN convention, we have not incorporated it. But we have incorporated the European convention. What is shocking is to see two of the highest judges in the land ready to ignore these international conventions. International law depends on the mutual respect of member states as a means of enforcement. None of the other 44 states that have incorporated the European convention on human rights has introduced detention without charge or trial, let alone allowed evidence generated by torture. Similarly, none of the 150 states of the UN convention has publicly taken such a position. The judgment must not be allowed to stand. This can be achieved in at least three ways. One is to appeal against it to the House of Lords on the grounds set out by Lord Justice Neuberger, the dissenting appeal court judge. Another is for parliament to refuse to extend this section of the act when it comes up for renewal in 2006. But there is a third way: ministers could simply reverse out of their human rights cul de sac by declaring that we will not be a legal pariah.