A double-glazing businessman worth an estimated £250m revealed he is providing financial aid to Kate and Gerry McCann's legal battle to clear their names.Brian Kennedy said he felt compelled to help them after they were named as suspects in their daughter Madeleine's disappearance. Last week Sir Richard Branson confirmed that he had made a £100,000 donation to the McCanns' legal costs. Mr Branson said he "trusted them implicitly" and wanted to ensure a fair trial.Mr Kennedy, a Cheshire-based businessman who owns the Latium group and Sale Sharks rugby team, confirmed his support. In a statement, he said: "In light of the quite literally incredible accusations against Gerry and Kate McCann, which are clearly exacerbating their emotional torture, I felt compelled to offer, along with other like-minded businessmen, financial support and support of the Latium team. That support is principally our in-house lawyer Ed Smethurst and Clarence Mitchell. This will relieve the McCanns of the daily pressure of coordinating the legal teams that will expedite the clearing of Gerry and Kate's names, allowing all parties to refocus on finding Madeleine."Mr Kennedy is understood to have had no previous contact with the McCanns or with Mr Mitchell, who quit his job at the Cabinet Office's media monitoring team to become the couple's official spokesman. The businessman will cover Mr Mitchell's salary while he is working with the couple. His firms have included Weatherseal Holdings, Everest, and Space Kitchens.Mr Mitchell said the McCanns were "very pleased" to have a number of wealthy donors to their costs. Other millionaires to have pledged money for information leading to the safe return of the four-year-old have included JK Rowling, the theatre impresario Bill Kenwright and Jacqueline Gold of Ann Summers.Last Wednesday it was announced that the McCanns would not yet face further questioning after the Portuguese attorney general ruled that police had not gathered enough evidence.Yesterday, there were unconfirmed reports that the McCanns had employed a search and rescue group to investigate leads that Portuguese police had not followed up. These were reported to include a second, independent sighting of a child who looked like Madeleine in Marrakech by a British tourist on the day that a Norwegian woman said she believed she saw her. Mr Mitchell said: "Any possible sightings, if credible, we hope would be examined thoroughly."