The long-running investigation into football corruption stepped up a gear tonight when it emerged that Harry Redknapp, one of the favourites to take over the job of England football coach, was among five men arrested by fraud squad detectives. He was later released after several hours of questioning.Redknapp, the manager of Portsmouth, was held by City of London police as part of its investigation into alleged bungs in the game. Last week, when asked how he felt about the England vacancy, he said: "I would say you'd have to almost be a traitor not to do the England job."Also arrested were the chief executive of Portsmouth, Peter Storrie, and Milan Mandaric, the Serbian businessman who owned Portsmouth until September last year and is now chairman of Leicester City. A player, the Charlton Athletic midfielder Amdy Faye, 30, and the football agent Willie McKay, 48 were also arrested. The transfer of Senegalese international Faye from Portsmouth to Newcastle was one of the 17 deals the former commissioner of the Met police, Lord Stevens, highlighted as having concerns about when at the end of his inquiry into football transfers.Monaco-based McKay acted as agent for the transfer while Mandaric was chairman of Portsmouth when Faye went to Newcastle in January 2005. Faye moved from the French club Auxerre to Portsmouth in August 2003. Faye has since played for Charlton and is now on loan with Glasgow Rangers.Redknapp was arrested as he returned to Britain after watching Rangers' 3-2 defeat by Stuttgart in Germany on Tuesday night in the Champions League.Confirming that Redknapp and Storrie were being questioned, their club said: "Portsmouth Football Club can confirm that chief executive Peter Storrie and manager Harry Redknapp have today been asked to help police with their inquiries concerning a matter dating back to 2003."This was prior to the new owner taking control of the club at the beginning of 2006. The club is fully supportive of Peter and Harry who are cooperating fully with City of London police in this ongoing inquiry. Both are playing major roles in the continued success of Portsmouth Football Club."Allegations about Redknapp were made in a Panorama documentary on football transfers last year. He denied doing any wrongdoing and issued a writ against the BBC. The Panorama programme also made allegations about the then Bolton manager, Sam Allardyce, who has since moved to Newcastle. He firmly denies wrongdoing and has refused to speak to the BBC since.In June, after an extensive inquiry into Premier League deals, Stevens named 17 transfers and five clubs. Transfers involving Chelsea, Middlesbrough, Bolton, Portsmouth and Newcastle have been highlighted in the report.The City of London police took up the baton, though they are always keen to distance themselves from Stevens' inquiries. In July, officers raided Portsmouth club offices at Rodney Road in the city, confiscating computers, files and paper work. Newcastle and Rangers FC were also raided. Mr Redknapp's luxury home in Poole, Dorset, is among the addresses believed to have been searched.In May, a 61-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of money-laundering and in September a footballer was questioned.The City of London police said the five arrested were being held on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and false accounting.A spokeswoman said: "The arrests were part of the force's ongoing investigation into corruption into the game. Two searches have been completed while another 10 are ongoing."Ladbrokes had put Mr Redknapp at 9/2 to succeed Steve McClaren as England boss. He has now slipped to 10/1.