Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman both died accidentally in the bathroom of the man accused of murdering them, his defence lawyer told the Old Bailey today.Giving the first details of how Ian Huntley claims the girls died while alone with him in his house, Stephen Coward QC said that Holly had a nosebleed on the day that the two 10-year-olds disappeared while walking around their hometown last August. Because it would not stop, Jessica and Mr Huntley, who denies murdering the two friends, went up to his bathroom at 5 College Close in Soham, Cambridgeshire.While attempting to stop Holly's nosebleed with tissue paper, Mr Huntley accidentally knocked her into his bath, Mr Coward said. Jessica began to scream and Mr Huntley put his hands over her mouth to stop her, the court was told. Mr Coward said that Mr Huntley then realised Jessica had lost consciousness, and looked round to Holly. He lifted her out of the bath but found no signs of breathing. When he turned back to Jessica, he found she too was not breathing. Mr Coward made his remarks as he cross-examined the pathologist who conducted the post mortems on the girls' bodies. "Mr Huntley was getting pieces of tissue or toilet paper, putting them under the cold tap to cool them and handing them to Holly, and on one of his turns from getting the wet tissue he slipped and it seems that he may well have banged into her as she was sitting on the edge of the bath, and she went backwards. He has no recollection of a bang, but he does remember a splash," Mr Coward said."When Holly went in the bath, which had roughly 18 inches of water in it because Mr Huntley was going to wash the dog, Jessica stood up and started screaming 'You pushed her, you pushed her'. "And he then turned towards Jessica and either with one hand or two, he's not sure, put his hands out towards Jessica, his memory is over her mouth, to stop her screaming. For how long he was in that position he can't say. "But he was then conscious that Jessica was no longer supporting herself on her feet. He let go and she went to the ground. He then turned round to the bath and Holly was lying in the bath, apparently dead. "He lifted Holly out of the bath, put her on the floor, looked for signs of breathing and found none. He turned his attention to Jessica, he looked for signs of breathing and found none." The trial was then adjourned until tomorrow morning.'Admissions'Earlier, the Old Bailey heard how Mr Huntley had admitted to disposing of their bodies after they died in his house. Prosecution lawyer Karim Khalil read five admissions - made on Mr Huntley's behalf - to the court today. Mr Khalil said: "One. Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman went into 5 College Close shortly after 6pm on Sunday August 4 2002. "Two. The mobile phone of Jessica Chapman explicitly detached from the mobile network at 6.46pm on Sunday August 4 2002. This was the last recorded signal. "Three. Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman died in 5 College Close on Sunday August 4 2002. "Four. The only other person in 5 College Close at the time of their deaths was Ian Huntley. "Five. Ian Huntley removed their dead bodies from 5 College Close and transported them in the Ford Fiesta car to the place where the bodies were found." Mr Khalil added that a total of 21 "admissions" would be dealt with "in due course". The jury had previously heard only that Mr Huntley was "unlikely to deny" that the girls had died in his house while he was alone with them, and that he disposed of their bodies. Mr Huntley, 29, a former caretaker at Soham Village College, denies murdering the 10-year-olds.Pathologist: 'Girls died through actions of third party'After hearing of Mr Huntley's admissions, the court heard from the Home Office pathologist who carried out post mortems on the bodies of Holly and Jessica. The girls had died through the actions of one or more third parties, Dr Nathaniel Carey said.During questioning for the prosecution, Dr Carey told the Old Bailey that the bodies of the two girls were found, touching, lying in a blackened area of a ditch in a remote spot known as Common Drove, near Lakenheath in Suffolk.A fire had taken place in the blackened area, the court heard. Dr Carey said there was vegetation around the bodies but no attempt at building a "pyre" seems to have been made. "This was not, in my view, a pyre that had been built with the aim of destroying bodies," he added. Dr Carey said he was "severely limited by the degree of decomposition" during his post-mortem examination of the two bodies. He found no evidence of damage to either skeleton, including the skulls, such as would probably have been caused by the use of "blunt force" or a sharp weapon. The lack of significant amounts of blood on the girls' clothing was also significant, he added.The evidence on strangulation was "neutral", Dr Carey continued, because the state of decomposition meant it was impossible to see signs of bruising to the front of the girls' necks. No fractures had been found in the voice box areas, but, said Dr Carey: "The difficulty at this age is that the cartilages are very pliable, so you could easily get significant compression of the neck without there being any changes." Asked if he was able to give a positive cause of death, the witness said: "No I was not. The cause I gave was unascertainable due to decomposition." Toxicology reports had not shown any "drug substances", he added.However Dr Carey told the court that the girls had not died of natural causes. He said he had seen medical reports relating to both girls and they were two "fit, healthy young girls"."I have come to the conclusion that although it is not possible to give any cause of death, that death must have involved the actions of one or more third parties ... In simple terms, 10-year-old girls simply do not die suddenly together," he said.All that was left, as a possible cause of death, was something "involved the interference with the mechanics of breathing," such as strangulation or smothering, Dr Carey added. He had also been unable, due to the levels of decomposition, to confirm or refute the possibility of sexual assault, he concluded.Another witness to give evidence earlier today was botanist Patricia Wiltshire. She told the court that she had examined the red Ford Fiesta belonging to Mr Huntley and found that soil samples taken from underneath the car matched soil samples from the place where the bodies were found. Mr Coward told the court yesterday that it was not disputed that his client had driven along the track near where the girls' bodies were found on August 17 last year. It was also not disputed that Mr Huntley cut off the girls' clothes as their bodies lay in a remote ditch beside the track, or that he had taken the clothes back to Soham Village College and set them on fire, Mr Coward added. Court hears of grim discoveryThe trial also heard evidence from the man who discovered the bodies of the two girls.Prosecution lawyer Richard Latham QC read the court a witness statement by local gamekeeper Keith Pryer, who described how he and two friends had gone to investigate a "horrendous smell" at the remote spot on August 17. Mr Pryer discovered the bodies of the two girls, lying side by side and face up in a drainage ditch off a track known as Common Drove, the statement said. The gamekeeper said that he drove into the area with Adrian Lawrence and Helen Sawyer to check some pheasant pens. After parking, the three began walking along the Drove, his statement continued. "Having walked 40 to 50 yards, I heard Adrian say, 'Do not come any further, Helen - go back to the van' ... He shouted to me to go over and verify what he had seen." Mr Pryer's statement described how he noticed a smell of "rotting flesh". He said he looked into an area around 6ft wide and about 4ft deep. "I was not prepared for what I saw. There was, or appeared to be, two very badly decomposing bodies lying side by side. "I immediately thought of the two missing girls from Soham, and Adrian rang the police on his mobile phone," the statement said. Mr Latham told the court that he was not prepared to read the next part of the statement. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the two girls but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. His former girlfriend Maxine Carr, 26, a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges that she gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for the day the girls went missing. The trial continues.