The key figures in the Stephen Lawrence tragedy became household names. This is how they have fared in the promised new era of race relations.  Neville Lawrence Stephen Lawrence's father serves on Jack Straw's race steering group and is part of the police's protected witness scheme. Last Christmas he was stopped by police and questioned about a robbery while driving in north-west London. The incident has led to a formal complaint and an investigation is under way. In the last year he and Doreen Lawrence have divorced. Neville has talked about the hurt of his marriage failing, and the continued pain caused by the failure to bring his son's killers to justice. He and Doreen are locked in a battle for compensation from the Met, as well as suing the five prime suspects for the murder for damages.   Imran Khan Khan was the solicitor for Stephen's parents and for his work won awards cementing his reputation as one of Britain's leading radical lawyers. A partner in an east London law firm, he has also become involved in two high profile race cases of the post-Lawrence era. He is representing the widow of Jason McGowan, one of two black men found hanging in Telford, Shropshire, in circumstances his family say are suspicious. He is also representing the young Asian student who was racially attacked by a white gang alleged to involve two Leeds United footballers.  Duwayne Brooks  He was with Stephen when he was murdered and is recovering slowly from post traumatic stress disorder. Mr Brooks is suing the Met over the way they failed to treat him as a surviving victim of the attack that killed his friend. The force is trying to have his claim thrown out of court. Mr Brooks is facing a charge of indecent assault at the Old Bailey next month.   Michael Mansfield QC  The radical barrister was lead counsel for the Lawrences and his forensic cross examination of officers elicited answers that embarrassed the force. He represented the family of Ricky Reel at his inquest, where the jury sided with the family in returning an open verdict, rejecting the police's account that the Asian teenager's death was accidental. More recently he represented the family of IRA man Diarmuid O'Neill at the inquest into his killing. He is also a leading and founding member of the national civil rights movement, set up in the wake of the Macpherson report to campaign for racial justice   Ros Howells  The veteran community activist from south-east London served as an adviser to the Lawrence's campaign. Mrs Howells, 68, played a part in smoothing relations between Mr and Mrs Lawrence and the home secretary. Last June she was ennobled and became one of 22 new Labour working peers.   Sir Paul Condon  The former commissioner of the Metropolitan police clung to his job despite calls for him to quit. His term as Britain's most senior police officer ended last month, with the Lawrence inquiry findings casting a cloud over his reforms of the force. From his Kent home Condon, who jealously guards his family's privacy, is pondering his future. His replacement as commissioner was Sir John Stevens.   DI Ben Bullock  Second in charge of the flawed first murder investigation into Stephen's death, Bullock was the only officer to face disciplinary charges. At the hearing Mr Bullock, 50, was found guilty of mishandling two minor elements and received a caution for neglect of duty. He has now retired from the force on medical grounds after being diagnosed as suffering from stress.   Deputy assistant commissioner John Grieve  Turned down the job of deputy chief constable of the Royal Ulster Constabulary to head Scotland Yard's race and violent crimes task force. Asian and black community activists say that his personal style has been vital to what improvement in relations there has been in the past year. His unit secured murder convictions against the killers of Michael Menson, found burning in the street, after police initially concluded the musician had tried to commit suicide. Working relations with Sir John Stevens are not good, but it is thought that his loss would seriously undermine the Met's efforts to boost its performance and image on race.   Sir William Macpherson  The author of the report that shook up race relations has watched with dismay as his findings have been attacked for demoralising the Met's officers after he found the force guilty of institutional racism. From his home, Newton Castle in Scotland, he kept his counsel for most of the year. But last week he told the Guardian of his anger at personal attacks and that the Met had to buckle down and eliminate discrimination. Macpherson, a clan chief, has returned to the retirement he came out of to chair the inquiry.   Bishop John Sentamu  The only black member of the panel of inquiry, Sentamu is the Bishop of Stepney in east London. The issue of race and police came back to affect him last month when it was revealed that he had been stopped and questioned while driving near St Paul's cathedral.   The five suspects and Clifford Norris  All five suspects are believed to be at the centre of the continuing police investigation into the murder. After one television interview, they have tried to keep a low profile. But David Norris and Jamie Acourt were in court last May, and admitted stealing 32 boxes of empty soda syphons and were fined. The remaining three suspects Neil Acourt, Luke Knight and Gary Dobson have kept out of trouble. Clifford Norris, the gangster father of David, is in jail after being sentenced to nine years in prison in 1996 for drugs and firearms offences. Customs and excise have won an appeal allowing them to seize the Norris's luxury £600,000 house in Chislehurst, Kent, after a confiscation order for £386,000 worth of proceeds from his drug deals. His brother, Alexander, has been released from his jail term.