The pathologist who carried out the autopsy on the murdered British student Meredith Kercher in Perugia said he had made "interesting" discoveries about her death. Ms Kercher, 21, was found partially clothed with her throat cut at her student accommodation on Friday in the Umbrian city.Luca Lalli said autopsy evidence showed "she possibly had sexual relations before her death, but was not raped", and denied Italian press reports to the contrary. He also said the weapon used to kill Ms Kercher was a penknife. Her body could now be released to her parents as early as today.After the autopsy yesterday evening, Mr Lalli and a team of investigators accompanied all three of Ms Kercher's female flatmates back to the rented house they shared in Perugia for further inquiries.Italian police investigating her murder are looking at photographs which were posted on the Facebook website, according to one of her acquaintances who says he has helped the police with their inquiries. Ms Kercher was pictured with friends in pubs and clubs in the medieval Italian city where she was studying Italian.Police have been scrutinising the photographs to identify people, said Pasquale Alessi, co-owner of the Merlin pub, which was frequented by the foreign language student. Mr Alessi has been asked to name men pictured with Ms Kercher, including a male American student, a Libyan computer student and part-time nightclub bouncer, as well as a friend of Mr Alessi's, Pietro Campolungo, who was pictured next to her at a Halloween party at the Merlin earlier that week.Gennaro Crugliano, 33, who took some of the photos, joined other acquaintances yesterday in dismissing suggestions that she was murdered during a tryst with a man she met at the party. "She was not the type to invite someone home without knowing them very well," he said.Samantha Rodenhurst, 20, one of Ms Kercher's classmates at the University for Foreigners in Perugia, said: "I was with Meredith at the pub that night and did not see her meet anyone. Meredith had not received any threats as far as I know." Police have found that an Italian whom Ms Kercher had dated occasionally was in southern Italy at the time of her murder.Investigators believe Ms Kercher might have known the attacker, since the front door of the house was not forced open. Police analysed fingerprints left at the rented house and checked for DNA. Local media reported that a footprint was found in blood around her body and that prints were left on two mobile phones belonging to Ms Kercher which had been thrown away near the house. Officers were reportedly studying the phones' call records.At the entrance to the university, a macabre notice yesterday advertised for an English student to take a vacant room in Ms Kercher's house; a fictitious phone number was made up of the dates of her death. Police removed the notice.