The last few days have shown how mercy does – and does not – fit within the British brand of justice. Frances Inglis, a mother driven by mercy into killing her son, was jailed for life. Munir Hussain, a businessman whose far from ­merciful treatment of a burglar led to brain damage, was nonetheless released by the appeal court on grounds of clemency. Then came the sentencing of the two Edlington boys who had tortured other children. Although indefinite sentences were served on both brothers – who are not yet teenagers, and who have suffered an unimaginable upbringing – campaigners demanded still harsher penalties, and there is a clamour to name them, which could extinguish any flickering hope of their eventual rehabilitation.The debates sparked by such cases might seem doomed never to reach a settled conclusion, since personal, political and religious convictions lead to different views on the relative importance of mercy and retribution. What is intriguing, however, is that the same person can often weight the moral scales differently in varying situations. Shrill advocates of revenge in the context of Edlington, for instance, are often also determined defenders of Mr Hussain. If there is a single lesson here, it is that the courts must retain sufficient discretion to respond to the specific contours of every case.At a point when they were no longer in danger, Mr Hussain and his brother beat the burglar so hard that a cricket bat ended up in pieces, and on that basis they were convicted of grievous bodily harm. A jury of the public looked long and hard at the evidence and reached that conclusion, even though they had heard all about the terrible conduct of the knife-wielding robber, and were aware of the (extensive) licence that this provides householders with. Faced with the sentencing guidelines and the facts that the jury established, the trial judge had no option but send Mr Hussain to jail. In truth, there was little statutory basis for the appeal court suspending the sentence, but fortunately for Mr Hussain his case was heard by the lord chief justice, who had the self-confidence to show mercy, by effectively setting aside the ground rules of sentencing, as set out in section 142 of the 2003 Criminal Justice Act.The shame for Ms Inglis is that no judge can bend the rules for her. She may have killed her brain-damaged son out of kindness, but that deliberate act still counts as murder, for which the mandatory sentence is life. That ought to change, while the headline-driven drift towards minimum sentences for other crimes must also be checked. Regardless of how merciful one may be, the lesson of last week is that the specific facts of a crime matter. They must inform the punishment, if justice is to be done.