Millstone grit is a phrase symbolic of the north, although many of the lovely, cappuccino-coloured products of our Pennine quarries are to be found much further afield.Those who disparage the regions down in London, for instance, should be reminded that when they shuffle along Oxford or Regent Streets in their relentless crowds, the beautiful paving beneath their feet is from Huddersfield. Our quarries have sent stone to every other street on the London Monopoly board.Alas, a similar lesson in respect also needs teaching up here, where hard times have brought a return of large-scale stone stealing on the lines of the metal theft which much exercises the Northerner. Bradford, a wonderful city built out of the mellow local stone, has just suffered a wretched example.Thieves using a three-and-a-half tonne truck which was caught on CCTV cut through the lock on the gates at Bolling Hall, an outstanding 16th century manor house which has the great merit of being well within the city boundaries. Millions of local children, and their elders, have been there over the years to learn about their city, the landscape and history and architecture more widely.The hall is listed grade 1 and stands on an estate which was recorded in the Domesday Book when the annual rent to a man called Sindi was 25p, which would of course be vastly much more at today's values. (Alas, my usual standby Measuring Worth doesn't go anything like that far back, so I hope you will accept such a vague comparison - or tell me if you know of a comparator which does).   Members of the Sealed Knot English Civil War re-enactment. Bradford got off lightly. Photograph: Ben Birchall/PAIts most famous moment in Bradford's history came in 1543 when the Royalist Earl of Newcastle billeted his troops there the night before capturing the city which was pro-Parliament. The ghost of a tearful woman appeared in his bedroom and pleaded 'Pity poor Bradford'. As a result, supposedly, his troops behaved themselves, did little damage and only ten people were killed.Pity poor Bradford now, though. As the council's executive member responsible forculture, Dave Green, tells the local Telegraph & Argus:These people are stealing from the taxpayers of Bradford and they are damaging the heritage of the city. I would urge anybody who has any information to contact the police so we can ensure that any future acts of theft are deterred.David McIlroy, visitor services supervisor for Bradford East, adds:This has gone from petty theft to industrial theft. It is heartbreaking. It is not only damaging council property but it does not look good for the people of Bradford to come and see the hall and grounds in such a state.Bolling is resilient. It was partially rebuilt by the noted architect John Carr of York after a serious fire in the 18th century, and when the council took it over in 1912 it was in a dilapidated condition after years of division into a series of tenancies.West Yorkshire police are hopeful of witness evidence because of the scale of the robbery. Sergeant David Shaw tells the T&A:This will not have been a quick task to undertake. I am sure that passers-by in the area would have seen this happening and may be able to recall it occurring. I would call upon builders or stone merchants to be aware and if you are offered stone of this nature and are suspicious in any way contact us.Such thefts, particularly from public buildings, are not only disruptive to the staff and visitors who use them, but also damaging to the local heritage. If you can help us in our investigations, please contact Bradford South Police on the non emergency number 101 or Crimestoppers in confidence on 0800 555 111.