I largely blame the office, not the man. What Lord Goldsmith's tenure as attorney general showed is that the job, as currently defined, has to be drastically changed - or abolished. I'm sure Gordon Brown hasn't had the time or inclination to think seriously about the issue, so he will probably announce a replacement for Goldsmith without altering the job description. But he should then make it clear that the appointment will last only until he reorganises the office, which he will do urgently. The next attorney general must be the last one, at any rate in its present form. (Ideally, the title should disappear as well, to prevent confusion, but we're very fond of keeping ancient historical labels.) Under my preferred scenario it doesn't matter all that much who takes over this week because it will be a short-lived appointment. There are unsubstantiated stories about Lib Dem peers Lord Carlile and/or Lord Lester being approached, but the probable favourites are Baroness Scotland or Goldsmith's deputy, the present solicitor general, Mike O'Brien. But what is important now is not the person, but the future of the post.The office of attorney general contains an inherent, inescapable flaw: a potential conflict of interest between the two hats that come with the job. Lord Goldsmith's six-year stint has emphasised its dangerousness. Under one hat, the attorney general is a political animal, appointed by the party in power and owing allegiance to its policies. He's also the government's legal adviser and, although not a member of the cabinet, can be invited to attend meetings. It was a particular criticism that Goldsmith was a far more frequent attender than any of his predecessors, thus making him seem even closer to the government's inner political circle. Yet the same insider, wearing the other hat, is expected to make decisions over a whole range of issues (especially criminal prosecutions) as an independent lawyer, taking into account only the public interest, with no thought of how they would affect government policy or colleagues.I happen to believe, because I have seen it in action, that some clever, well-trained, experienced lawyers are able to compartmentalise, and separate the purely legal from factors such as loyalty and prejudice; and be strong enough to resist pressures. I accept that, for instance, Goldsmith would have assessed the evidence in the cash for honours affair with utmost objectivity (his views on the legality of the war against Iraq are another matter). Anyway, what counts is perception, and I don't think that many people will believe that any attorney general can be both an important member of government and an independent upholder and defender of the public interest. Gordon Brown's task is to separate the two conflicting duties and interests. Let there be someone in parliament to serve the government as its trusted legal person; and an eminent, independently minded senior lawyer, with no close allegiance to a political party, not a member of either house, to do the rest. All Gordon Brown needs to do is to change the law, change the job and pick the people. It doesn't have to take very long.The French playwright Bernard-Marie Koltès died in 1989 aged 41. Last year the venerable Comédie-Française wanted to put on one of his plays, Retour au Désert. The theatre asked for the necessary permission from Koltès's brother and heir, François Koltès, who granted it - until he noticed something to which he objected. The role of an Algerian character, Aziz, was being played by a French actor. There was nothing wrong with his acting. But, said François, his brother had always insisted that Aziz had to be played by an Arab actor. He called on the theatre to substitute an Arab for the Frenchman. The Comédie-Française refused, whereupon François Koltès withdrew his permission and the play had to be taken off, before the end of its run.I should explain that the heirs or trustees of a playwright have the copyright and therefore considerable control over the way the play is presented. It is well known, for instance, that the estate of Samuel Beckett is extremely strict, and will not give consent unless satisfied that the play will be performed to a high standard, and exactly as the writer would have demanded, even to the stage directions. But could - should - the heirs' power extend to controlling the casting? Beckett's estate famously vetoed a proposed starry English production of Waiting for Godot which would have used a female cast, though when it tried to ban an Italian production of Godot with two women in the lead roles, the producers took legal action, and a court in Rome ruled last year that the play could go ahead, with women as Estragon and Vladimir. George Gershwin's estate still insists on fulfilling his wish that performances of Porgy and Bess in English-speaking countries have black players in the black roles. Shakespeare, of course, is out of copyright. No one can ever demand that Othello be played by a Moorish type or Hamlet by a Dane.Here's what happened in the Koltès affair. The theatre took François Koltès to court - and won. The judges ruled last week that François had abused his role as keeper of his brother's "moral rights" in the play; he was ordered to pay compensation to the theatre for the lost performances. Now that Paris and Rome have broken the rigid, unyielding power of a playwright's heirs, can London be far behind?This week Marcel saw The Pain and the Itch, by American playwright Bruce Norris, at the Royal Court in London: "There were some very funny bits, but it was an uneven play and not always clear in its argument." Marcel read Chopin's Funeral, by Benita Eisler, about the composer in Paris: "He wasn't nearly as romantic as his music, and his lover George Sand was a pain."