If John Thornhill, chair of the Magistrates' Association (Judges deny riot sentences are too harsh, 30 August), really believes that normal sentencing guidelines were not being ignored in recent riot-related cases then he clearly needs to go on a refresher course in sentencing.There is no doubt that some of the sentences given to offenders have been unjustly and unfairly punitive. Take the case of the young man, a first-time offender, given six months in prison for stealing water worth £3.50 (Report, 12 August). According to the magistrates sentencing guidelines, an appropriate sentence for this offender would be a conditional discharge, a low fine or a low-level community order. Similarly, the woman charged with handling stolen goods for accepting a pair of shorts from a friend should have received as a sentence a low fine or a low-level community order, instead of which she too was given six months imprisonment, thankfully reduced on appeal (Report, 20 August).Even taking into account the context in which these and many other offences took place, the passing of sentences so out of line with normal sentencing practice is difficult to justify. Magistrates promise to "do right to all manner of people after the laws and usages of the realm without fear or favour, affection or ill-will". It would seem that a considerable amount of ill-will has been directed at some offenders in recent weeks.Lynda Hall JPLondon• I was heartened to read Jackie Ashley's article (This public nervousness lets young people down, 28 August). Notting Hill carnival unfolds on the doorstep of my award-winning charity, SPID (Specially Produced Innovatively Directed). Uniquely, SPID champions arts projects for council estate teenagers – and has some insight into the recent riots' cause.We have grown accustomed to phenomena that police seemed surprised by, like seven-year-olds smashing public property. Police simply will not venture to some of the estates where we work, and we are far less shocked than they seem to be because we have seen this coming. Our increasingly prescient work shows why. SPID's futuristic youth film Affected, about greed-possessed zombies, predicted the looting with alarming accuracy. Our Team Spirit drama, about a team of teenagers' challenge to gang culture, toured west London council estates against a backdrop of frighteningly atmospheric violence.Something has to give when impoverished children are told to consume and consume. In our view the advertising that saturates young people's childhood is a major concern; the biggest question is not today's rioters, it's the generation upon generation of rioters in the pipeline.Helena ThompsonArtistic director, SPID