A man who was found guilty of shooting dead a police officer at close range and attempting to kill two of his colleagues was told yesterday he will be in jail for the rest of his life.David Bieber, a powerfully built American bouncer, was convicted at Newcastle crown court of murdering PC Ian Broadhurst, a married 34-year-old officer, on Boxing Day last year. He was shot dead as he lay incapacitated on the ground pleading for his life. Bieber, 38, was also convicted of the attempted murders of his colleagues PC Neil Roper, 45, and PC James Banks, 27, and three firearms offences. Mr Justice Moses told Bieber that the aggravating feature of the case was that he shot PC Broadhurst through the head when he was already disabled. This was so grave that "I must order that the early release provisions shall not apply and you must spend the rest of your life in prison". The judge said: "The two police officers, PC Broadhurst and PC Roper, treated you with conspicuous fairness and consideration. You repaid their courtesy by killing PC Broadhurst and attempting to kill PC Roper. You shot them both, hitting one in the chest and the other in the back to avoid arrest and discovery of the loaded gun." The judge said Bieber had shown no remorse for the brutality of PC Broadhurst's murder. "On the contrary you have maintained a cool and detached reaction as you attempted to explain the overwhelming evidence against you." He said parliament recognised the killing of a police officer in the course of his duty normally leads to a minimum of 30 years but this was only a starting point. The jury at Newcastle took three hours to reach their unanimous verdict on all the charges. It later emerged that Bieber was wanted for the murder of a bodybuilder in Florida nine years ago and the attempted murder of a former girlfriend. He slipped into Britain on a tourist visa and was at large for seven years. PCs Roper and Banks sat in the front row of the public gallery for the verdict, with the murdered officer's widow, Eilisa, behind them. When the first guilty verdict was read out for the murder of her husband, she clenched her fists and said "yes" before bursting into tears and hugging a police liaison officer. Broadhurst's mother, Cindy Eaton, also broke down in tears. Bieber had his hands in his trouser pockets and slowly turned his head surveying the public gallery. The court had heard that when the officers attempted to handcuff him for being in possession of a stolen BMW, he suddenly produced a semi-automatic handgun from his trouser pocket and fired five shots within eight seconds. One unanswered question is why Bieber was sitting in the driver's seat with a loaded handgun. Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Gregg, who led the murder inquiry, said: "It is possible that he was armed in the car that Boxing Day because he was on the way to a hit or was employing someone else to carry one out." PC Broadhurst's family said after the verdict: "He lived for his job and he paid tragically with his life for doing his duty. He left home on Boxing Day saying goodbye to his family. We never imagined it would be the last time we saw him. What happened in those final seconds is beyond belief and will haunt us forever." PC Roper said he had lost a close friend. "What happened that day had a dramatic impact on my life. We left Garforth to do what we did every day, and I only wished we had turned left instead of right." Bieber is only the 25th person to be given a whole life tariff. Others include Peter Sutcliffe and Ian Brady.