Two Continuity IRA members have been jailed for life over the murder of a police officer in Northern Ireland.Brendan McConville, 40, a former Sinn Fein councillor, and John Paul Wootton, 20, shot dead Stephen Carroll in a CIRA ambush on a private housing development in Craigavon, County Armagh. Carroll, 48, was the first member of the Police Service of Northern Ireland to be murdered by paramilitaries.The shooting on 9 March 2009 happened less than 48 hours after the Real IRA shot dead two British soldiers outside an army barracks in Antrim town. The three murders marked a new upsurge in dissident republican violence.The officer's widow, Kate Carroll, said after the verdict that republican dissidents opposed to the political settlement in Northern Ireland were fighting a losing battle. She said her family and the PSNI would not rest until everyone involved in her husband's murder was brought before the courts."I am happy that we have got this far but we have a long way to go yet. Not everyone connected with Stephen's murder has been found guilty," she said. Of McConville and Wootton, she added: "Justice has been done. I feel pity and disgust for them because we are trying to move on in Northern Ireland. I pity them more than anything else."She said that in killing her husband and Constable Ronan Kerr, who died in a booby trap bomb attack last year, dissident republicans had achieved nothing. "They haven't achieved anything from when Steve was killed, from when Ronan Kerr was killed. They have achieved nothing. They are fighting a losing battle. Why do they do it? No one wants it any more."Matt Baggott, chief constable of the PSNI, praised the Carroll family's bravery and the "tenacity and perseverance" of his officers and the Public Prosecution Service.Lord Justice Girvan took three weeks to assess the evidence before delivering his reserved judgment. He told the court that McConville and Wootton were "active and committed supporters of a republican campaign of violence" who were "intimately involved" in planning the murder of Carroll. The judge will return with a direction on the minimum terms the men must serve at a later date.McConville, of Craigavon, and Wootton, from Lurgan, had denied any involvement in the shooting.Wootton's mother, Sharon, pleaded guilty to obstructing the police investigation into the murder. She admitted removing computer equipment from their house before police raids.Much of the case against the two men came from a witness known only as M who placed them at the scene of the shooting. His identity was protected in the trial and he is now on a special witness protection programme.The North Armagh area remains a stronghold for the Continuity IRA.