A six-year-old girl was killed after a hit-and-run driver ploughed into a group walking along a Liverpool street.Demi Leigh Royle was returning from a local shop with an adult family friend and a five-year-old girl when a van struck them in the Huyton area of the city. In a statement released last night through police, the family said: 'Demi Leigh was a loving and lively little girl. She loved to dance and was a member of the Millennium Morris Dancing group based at St George's Hall in Huyton. Everything she did made us laugh. Her not being here will leave a hole that can never be filled. She will always be with us in our hearts and our memories.' The five-year-old girl was taken to Whiston Hospital suffering from facial injuries, while the 29-year-old woman was treated for shock. Before the accident Merseyside Police had spotted the dark-coloured Fiat Ducato van that is believed to have been involved in the accident being driven in a suspect manner. The incident has been passed to the Independent Police Complaints Commission for investigation. After the accident, the driver fled the scene. However, last night police said they were questioning a 24-year-old man from Liverpool on suspicion of causing death by dangerous driving, although they downplayed reports that the van had been stolen. A Merseyside Police spokesman said: 'Prior to the road traffic collision on Astley Road a police patrol car driving along Derby Road, Prescot, had spotted a van, similar in description to the offending vehicle. The van, which was travelling in the opposite direction, was being driven in a manner that attracted the attention of the officers.'The officers turned the police car around, but by the time they had reached the Brookbridge roundabout they had lost sight of the van. Some time later the road traffic collision in Astley Road was reported to police.' Last month a hit-and-run driver was convicted of causing the death of a two-year-old boy dragged 400 yards along a road in Birmingham. Mohammed Hussain, 22, was found guilty of the manslaughter of Josh Berrill, who was dragged to his death when a Toyota MR2 ploughed into him and his then 13-year-old aunt Millie Robinson in 2004.