Full-time, uniformed police officers are to be based permanently in as many as 400 schools in England's worst crime "hotspots" as part of the government's crackdown on truancy and bad behaviour, it was announced yesterday.At the same time, all schools in England are being urged to build a working relationship with their local police in order to make their communities safer places. Under the proposals set out yesterday by the education secretary, Estelle Morris, up to 70 secondaries and their feeder primaries in 30 to 40 local education authorities will be offered the opportunity of full-time police back-up. That could amount to between 300 and 400 schools. Ms Morris said the plan was part of a range of measures aimed at cutting the amount of crime committed by youngsters who deliberately skipped school - an estimated 50,000 a day in England alone. Addressing a conference on truancy in Westminster yesterday, Ms Morris said it was crucial that all schools had a relationship with the local police, and that stronger links would help local communities beat truancy and crime. But she stressed that the new scheme was strictly voluntary, and that she was not suggesting that armed police should be patrolling the corridors of England's secondary schools. To back up the proposals, the government yesterday published new guidance - so-called police protocol - for police-school liaison. Extra funding of £10m was also announced - part of a £66m "anti-truancy" package unveiled last week - to pay for administrative support for police in schools. The police staffing costs will be borne by the local force. Ms Morris pointed to official figures showing that 40% of street crime, 25% of burglaries, 20% of criminal damage and a third of car thefts are carried out by 10 to 16-year-olds during school hours. "What I want is for schools to have a relationship with the police," she said. "Schools should not work at arm's length from the police." David Hart, general secretary of the National Association of Head Teachers, said: "NAHT supports greater police involvement, providing headteachers control the deployment of the police in their schools. Headteachers must have the right to vet the actual police officers assigned to their schools, because not every police officer will be suitable to work in a school environment." John Dunford, general secretary of the Secondary Heads Association, added: "I strongly welcome the support now being given by government to schools in combating truancy. Headteachers use a wide range of measures to improve attendance, but too much truancy is condoned by parents." He warned the government not to treat street crime, truancy and anti-social behaviour to an initiative-a-day series of soundbites. "We need to deal with these problems in a coherent way, developing a positive approach to youth strategy, which acknowledges the fact that the great majority of young people are well-behaved, orderly citizens," he said. The Association of Chief Police Officers said a police presence in schools would be a "positive measure to impact on youth crime and anti-social behaviour".Steve Pilkington, Chief Constable of Avon and Somerset Police, who leads for the association on youth issues, welcomed the initiative. "More effort must be put into preventing youth crime by working with schools and seeking to intervene earlier in the lives of those young people who are at high risk of turning to crime. "This approach is not part of the police taking a soft option - youth crime is a complex issue and there is a need to adopt a range of responses from working with children and young people in and around schools to effectively targeting and dealing with serious and persistent offenders," he said.