A builder suspected of stabbing a couple to death after breaking into their home in Surrey has been arrested .Viktoras Bruzas, 38, was wanted on suspicion of murdering Patrick Kettyle, 55, and his wife, Gillian, 54, in the quiet suburban village of Fetcham, near Leatherhead. The couple are believed to have known Bruzas but detectives were unclear about the nature of their relationship.He was stopped by officers while driving in Oxshott shortly before 6pm, Surrey police said.Det Ch Insp Mark Preston said the tragic incident had shaken the community in Fetcham: “I hope the arrest this evening goes some way to reassure the public that we have been relentless in our efforts during this fast-moving and on-going investigation.”He thanked everyone who assisted with the search for Bruzas, including members of the public and the media.Another man in his 30s who was arrested at a property in Walton-on-Thames earlier on Thursday was released on police bail while the investigation continued.DS Nick May, of Surrey police, said the person who killed the Kettyles entered their home shortly after midnight on Wednesday and “subjected the victims to a sustained attack”. The alarm was raised at 12.30am after a relative who lived with them found the bodies.A bloodstained meat cleaver was recovered near the detached home, which has security cameras and signs warning of 24-hour CCTV surveillance.Officers took the unusual step of naming Bruzas, a self-employed builder from Walton-on-Thames, as their main suspect. Bruzas, from Kaunas, Lithuania’s second largest city, describes himself as a Chelsea fan, divorced and a “good single boy” on his Facebook page. .Patrick Kettyle is believed to have retired recently after running his own building and electrical firms for 30 years. It is not known whether Bruzas worked for Kettyle, but his ex-partner, Kristiana Bruziene, is understood to have been employed with his company as a secretary since June 2012. She used to live with Bruzas but has moved to a nearby flat in the past year, records show.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Police stand guard outside the Kettyles’ home in Fetcham. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty ImagesRaj Haque, whose council ward includes the murder scene, said the community was devastated by the brutal murders. ”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Forensics officers remove the knife they found near the crime scene. Photograph: Peter Macdiarmid/Getty Images