Where there's a will there's a way. I think of the adage whenever I hear of some "foolproof" technology to stop criminals circumventing the law. Yesterday certainly stands out. Satellite tracking pinpoints, we are told, a miscreant's position to within two metres. Very impressive. But will it do the job?I've never been tagged. Never had a non-custodial sentence for that matter. So I rang a few young scallies subjected to the ankle bracelet routine (the previous technology, which told if someone had left their home in breach of a curfew order) and asked them for the latest gen on beating the system. Could they find a way around GPS, or would they finally admit defeat? I wasn't the least surprised to learn there is a way to beat GPS. Several in fact. It would not be in the public interest to reveal them. Suffice to say at least two sounded cunning in the extreme; another sounded far too extreme to be remotely cunning. Security measures are invariably criminal-led, a response to villains having found a way around the previous "foolproof" system. It's always been that way, in my experience. When I started screwing commercial premises, fulltime, in 1962, alarms were practically non-existent. Security was on the perceived points of entry. Strong bolts, steel doors, and shutters persuaded the brethren to take to the roofs to save time and trouble. Even when the early alarms appeared, they were merely "clangers" that stopped when ripped from the wall and plunged in a bucket of water. They brought in bells that were difficult to remove. So we drilled and filled 'em with foam used on cavity walls. Then came a dirty trick: monitored systems, run off phone lines. If you made an entry or cut the line, you broke the constant signal telling the monitors all was well. So the brethren's boffins devised a "loop" you would attach before doing the business. Their signal was replaced by yours. Eventually, however, the signals became too complex for even the most clued-up of bellmen. Now, even the cheapest systems are hard to beat. But beaten they will be, just as David Blunkett's satellite tracking will be beaten. Where there's a will ... · Eric Allison was a career criminal for nearly 40 years until his release in 1990. He now writes for the Guardian as prisons correspondent