Home Secretary David Blunkett is 'not fit' to be in charge of Britain's prisons, according to the Government's former Chief Inspector of Prisons, Sir David Ramsbotham.In a deeply critical article to be published tomorrow, Ramsbotham writes that he deplores the comments made by Blunkett after the suicide of serial killer Harold Shipman when he said he was tempted to celebrate 'with a bottle of bubbly'. He also condemns prisons chief Martin Narey for saying he understood why Blunkett had made his comments. Writing in the launch edition of web magazine Prison.com , Ramsbotham says: 'No one who rejoices - or says they understand why someone rejoices - at the death of someone for whose safety they are responsible, is fit to be responsible for the custody of any fellow human being.' There have been eight prison suicides already this year, including two young offenders. Ministers are known to be concerned about a spate of suicides in women's prisons. Evoking the spirit of Winston Churchill, Ramsbotham claims Blunkett has failed to live up to the high standards set by the statesman when he embarked on the reform of Britain's prisons as Liberal Home Secretary in 1910. Ramsbotham, a former Army general who served in Northern Ireland, quotes from a speech Churchill made at the time: 'A calm and dispassionate recognition of the rights of the accused against the State, and even of convicted criminals against the State ... these are the symbols which, in the treatment of crime and criminals, mark and measure the stored-up strength of a nation and are the sign and proof of the living virtue in it.' As chief inspector, Ramsbotham published a report into suicides in prison which concluded that there had to be a clear message about suicide from the top. In his Prison.com article he returns to the point and argues that this leadership is still lacking and many of his recommendations have still not been acted on. Ramsbotham calls on the Home Secretary to make a 'ringing declaration' that suicide and self-harm are unacceptable in the prison system. 'This requires clear and unequivocal direction from the top that suicide and self- harm are to be prevented, as far as is humanly possible,' he says. 'If there is any doubt that that view is shared by the Home Secretary, or by any other Minister or senior official, that purpose is undermined. If it is undermined, so is the principle of safety to which every prisoner, as Churchill stated so clearly, has a right.' Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: 'I entirely support Sir David's comments. The Home Secretary has become ridiculous. At the time Blunkett was rejoicing in the death of one prisoner for whom he was responsible, two 18 year olds and a woman took their lives. Did he rejoice about their deaths too?'