A multimillionaire British developer who lives among the West Palm Beach elite has been arrested in Florida on an extradition warrant accusing him of murdering a caretaker who was tortured and strangled in London eight years ago.Thanos Papalexis, 36, who regularly features in the society pages of the Palm Beach Post, was eating with a female friend at the chic Fire Rock Pizza restaurant in West Palm Beach at Friday lunchtime when US marshalls approached his table and read him his rights.US police said they had been following Papalexis, a Briton of Greek descent, before he was arrested on a warrant issued by a judge in London alleging he murdered Charalambos Christodoulides, 57. Extradition proceedings are now under way.The multimillionaire, who drives a Bentley and hosted a fundraising party for Bill and Hillary Clinton at an oceanfront house in January, was picked up at the request of the Metropolitan police in connection with the murder of Christodoulides, a single man who lived in a flat in a disused wine warehouse in Kilburn, north-west London. For a long time the killing of Christodoulides, a Greek Cypriot, had baffled the British police. He was found buried in a vehicle pit at the warehouse where he had lived for several years in an upstairs flat.At the time officers said the room where he was killed would have been a bloodbath, but it appeared that the killers had spent time washing the walls and floor in the upstairs room. Police said spots of blood found on a yacht parked in the courtyard of the warehouse suggested Christodoulides was first attacked there. Patterns of blood in the building suggest he was later dragged to an upstairs room where he was tied to a chair and beaten as if the killers were trying to force information from him.Police believe he was strangled in the room. His body was wrapped in a sheet, with two woolly hats placed over his face, before the killers took him into the courtyard. He was dumped in a car pit in the warehouse before the murderers poured paint stripper all over his body. Police believed the killers were trying to stop sniffer dogs from finding him.According to reports at the time, Christodoulides last spoke to his sister, Anna Lanitis, on March 8 2000. Two days later he failed to collect his winnings from a betting shop he used regularly and was reported missing. Police found him 10 days later.Papalexis appeared on the extradition warrant at the federal court in West Palm Beach on Monday. According to court documents the developer, then aged 26 and just starting up his property business, had wanted to develop the Kilburn warehouse.According to the extradition request, as long as the caretaker lived in the flat he was unable to buy the property. For every week he was prevented from buying the unit Papalexis lost £60,000 in interest to a loan shark, the court documents said.US authorities were notified in April by the Metropolitan police that Papalexis was wanted in connection with the murder. Scotland Yard said yesterday that Papalexis had been arrested on an extradition warrant alleging the murder of Christodoulides. Police sources confirmed that Papalexis was hoping to buy the disused warehouse in 2000.News of the arrest was picked up in the gossip columns of the local Palm Beach press, where he has featured several times since he arrived in Florida to set up his property business in 2000.His highest-profile entry in the pages of the newspaper gossip columns so far came in January, when he hosted a fundraising party for the Clintons in a rented beach house. According to the New York Times, the owner of the property, Michael Cantor, later complained that Papalexis had failed to pay the rent on time.Two men are due to appear for trial at the Old Bailey next year in connection with the murder.