The child killer Mary Bell and her teenage daughter are expected to be granted an injunction protecting their anonymity for life, after the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, sided with her lawyers yesterday in supporting the move to protect her right to a private life under the European convention on human rights. His stance left no one opposing their application at the high court yesterday, after the press decided not to contest the injunction, although the judge, Dame Elizabeth Butler-Sloss, must weigh up their arguments against the competing claims of press freedom and could still refuse to grant the anonymity order. For Bell, 46, who lives under a new identity, the Human Rights Act, which made the European convention part of English law from October 2000, has been a godsend. Under English law, the family would have had no right to keep their identity secret once the daughter turned 18, as she did last year. Dame Elizabeth granted a lifelong injunction, then unprecedented, in 2001 to protect the new identities of Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, the killers of two-year-old James Bulger, on their release from custody. The judge, who granted that injunction mainly under article two of the European convention, the right to life, said yesterday: "I had no doubt they were in serious danger of being killed or at least severely beaten." Bell and her daughter, who are protected at the moment by a "holding" injunction, are not at a high risk of attack, said Andrew Caldecott QC for the attorney general. They were considered to be at "medium risk". But Mr Caldecott, representing the public interest, on behalf of the attorney general, argued that article eight of the convention, the right to respect for private and family life, entitled them to protection. Edward Fitzgerald QC, for Bell, said there was a real likelihood that disclosure of her identity and whereabouts would lead to harassment. "That is the view of all the experts - and that in turn raises the risk of vilification, ostracism and interference with the rehabilitation of Bell and prejudice to her physical and mental well-being." In December 1968, 11-year-old Bell was convicted of the manslaughter of two boys, Martin Brown, four, and Brian Howe, three. She was sentenced to be detained at Her Majesty's pleasure and released on licence in 1980. Mr Fitzgerald told Dame Elizabeth, the president of the high court's family division, that the features which justified a unique approach in the case were the extreme youth of Bell at the time of the offences and the fact that she had had a new identity since her release with the full consent of the Home Office. It was also relevant that the press did not contest the proceedings and that the attorney general, representing the public interest, did not oppose an injunction under article eight of the human rights convention, which requires respect for someone's private and family life. But Mr Caldecott emphasised that there were "very delicate issues" about the balance between the right to privacy and family life and the importance of open justice. "This is obviously a case in which not only the decision, but the particular reason for it, will be extremely important. If this is an exceptional case, the reasons why it is exceptional will obviously be of interest to the public and as legal precedent." A decision will not be given until after Easter. 