The Labour cabinet will meet at Chequers today to map out a political strategy running up to the next election, banking on a strong economy and imminent fulfilment of its five election pledges to defeat William Hague.The bulk of the work on the manifesto analysis has now been completed, overseen by No 10 policy researcher Ed Richards. It is expected that crime and fear of crime, and wider social disorder such as drunkenness and incivility, will play a large part in the manifesto, as well as in the Queen's speech. Ministers believe middle England is beginning to recognose that acute crime is in decline, but more needs to be done to show that the government is on the side of ordinary citizens fed up by drunkenness, graffiti and street intimidation. Strategists believe they need to address the issue of social dislocation partly by developing ideas set out in neighbourhood renewal strategy. They also want to take the New Deal into more difficult areas, including the 1m plus completely out of touch from the labour market. Ministers plan to use the Queens speech in a fortnight's time and a raft of green papers, including one on the family and another on work-life balance, to show that Labour will not run out of energy or ideas in a second term. Party officials are also pinning hopes on the novel thank you campaign - launched with nationwide posters this week in which ordinary citizens are given the credit for the reduction in class sizes and other achievements in the Labour record. They hope the slogan will address the image of an arrogant out of touch leadership whilst stressing the government's achievements. "We have been struggling to find a vocabulary of achievement that is also humble and this may be the answer," said one MP involved in preparing the campaign. The fall in Mr Blair's personal popularity ratings has been the most worrying development for the party in recent months. Some Downing Street strategists believe they will win the coming election easily with a strong message to voters on the economy, on investment in key public services like health and education, and even on Europe where they will contrast their promise of choice on the single currency with Tory isolationism. "The economy, education, the health service and crime, these themes are enough to keep the 1997 coalition together," one No 10 insider predicted. In a reversal of the electoral logic of the 1980s when Thatcherite tax cuts drove the agenda, Labour will campaign on a stable economy plus investment in public services which most voters want. Labour fears that a drive to lower public expecations and create cynicism is William Hague's best bet. "Their strategy is to put people off, to create cynicism in the hope of getting in by the back door," one strategist said.