The home secretary tonight said that he had considered his position but will not resign after apologising for allowing over 1,000 foreign criminals, including murderers, to be freed without being considered for deportation.The Conservatives today accused Home Office ministers of serial incompetence after a statement from Charles Clarke admitting that 1,023 former foreign prisoners should have been considered for deportation, including three murderers and nine rapists.In a briefing to journalists at the Home Office Mr Clarke apologised for the failures, which were made between February 1999 and March 2006, and conceded that the mistakes would understandably prompt anger. He later said the blunder was not a "resigning issue".The prime minister's official spokesman said later that Tony Blair viewed the failure as "deeply regrettable" but was confident that ministers had now taken appropriate action to deal with the problem. After complaints from the opposition, Mr Clarke indicate tonight that he would make an oral statement to MPs "in due course" and admitted that it might have been "better judgment" to have done so in the first place.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "This astonishing admission by the Home Office is the latest in a long line of failures which have jeopardised the protection of the public. 160 of these offenders were recommended for deportation as part of their sentencing but, of these offenders, only five have been deported. This serial incompetence beggars belief. The home secretary urgently needs to come to the House of Commons to explain the situation."Among the total, five former prisoners had been convicted of committing sex offences against children. Seven had served time for other sex offences, 57 were convicted of violent offences and two convicted of manslaughter.There were also 41 burglars, 20 drug importers, 54 convicted of assault and 27 of indecent assault. The Home Office admitted that it did not know the full details of the offences committed by more than 100 of the prisoners.Since the failures were discovered, the Immigration and Nationality Directorate (IND) has tracked down 107 of the total, leading to 20 deportations.In 160 of the cases, the courts had made a specific recommendation that the criminals be deported from Britain at the end of their sentences. The IND director general, Lin Homer, said that of those 160, 14 had been identified, of whom five had been deported and nine considered inappropriate for removal.The Home Office said attempts would be made to trace all of those involved. But, asked if he believed all of the foreigners would be recaptured for possible deportation, Mr Clarke admitted: "There are a large number of people involved. I can't say hand on heart that we will identify where each one of those is, but we are working on that very energetically."The failures only came to light after the Commons all-party public accounts committee asked questions about released foreign prisoners in a hearing last October.Mr Clarke said the errors happened because the Prison Service was not focused on the nationality of its prisoners, while the IND was preoccupied with other matters.The number of prisoners in England and Wales who were born overseas has increased rapidly in the last decade, from 4,300 in 1996 to more than 10,000 at the end of February this year, Mr Clarke said. "We simply didn't make the proper arrangements for identifying and considering removal in line with the growth of numbers that were there."That is a failure of the Home Office and its agencies for which I take responsibility."Mr Clarke insisted he did not want to apportion blame between different parts of the Home Office for the error. "I'm not going down the blame game here," he said. "Both the Prison Service and the IND failed to carry out their responsibilities in the way they ought to have done. They have both taken steps to lead me to be confident that it is now being done properly. It is a failure and it is not acceptable and that's what we're putting straight."The Home Office said that, despite the mistake, the foreign prisoners had been treated like other released prisoners, with some being released on licence.Mr Clarke said the Home Office took the failure, "extremely seriously". "The concern, possibly anger, that people will feel, I think, is entirely understandable. But I think it's better to acknowledge and admit it, and deal with it in that way."There was no data available on whether any of the 1,023 former prisoners had committed more crimes in Britain since they were released, Mr Clarke said.The PM's official spokesman said that neither Mr Clarke nor Mr McNulty had offered their resignations."The prime minister agrees that ministers have taken appropriate action and he still has full confidence in Tony McNulty and Charles Clarke," the spokesman said. "This problem didn't originate as a result of a policy decision by ministers. It was a breakdown in communications. I think it is unreasonable to expect ministers to know what is going on in every nook and cranny in their department." Asked about Mr Blair's reaction to the news, the spokesman said: "You will hardly expect him to have been pleased with this, but equally he recognises that ministers have dealt with the problem."