The police were never going to win. They would either fail to reduce street robberies and thereby earn the obloquy of a prime minister who had pledged in parliament that they would; or they would succeed and be accused of fiddling the figures. Yesterday the safer second bet came home, to celebrations from police chiefs and multiple caveats from opposition spokesmen. There was fair - and unfair - point-scoring by both sides.Start with the positive. Last year's 30% rise in street robberies - against a staggering one third fall in burglaries and car theft over the previous five years - was serious. True, much of it involved young people taking mobile phones off even younger people. About a quarter of street crime victims are 15 or under and another quarter and between 16 and 20. But young people have just as much right to protection as adults. Yesterday the Home Office reported a 14% fall in the 10 worst areas that account for 80% of all street robberies. Merseyside did best with a 27% fall in robberies and even Nottingham, at the bottom, had a reduction of 5%. So much then, for the various stories in Tory papers forecasting Labour would miss its target ("Blair pledge on street crime fails as muggings soar", Sunday Telegraph, July 28.) Even South Yorkshire police, who initially saw a 17% rise in muggings, achieved a 25% drop. The Home Office claimed there were 70 fewer street robbery victims a day throughout August compared to March of this year. One worry of professional observers did not materialise: that the Met, with its higher number of auxiliary officers, would succeed by swamping its "hot spots", unlike regional forces with less flexibility. In fact the Met cut robberies by 9%, but Greater Manchester did so by 26%. But the negative nabobs had some fair points. Yesterday's statistics do not provide a month-by-month analysis. Definitions may have changed. When does street theft become street robbery? It would be interesting to know what has happened to other crime, such as larceny. (Drug addicts still need cash to finance their addiction.) And how sustainable is the fall? It was achieved with a huge shift of manpower. The contribution of other programmes, such as the highly successful crime diversion programmes of the youth justice board, cannot be ignored. All this is a rich field for further research. But at least, for the moment, UK streets have become safer places.