The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, last night mounted a fierce attack on growing government encroachment on judicial independence, warning that judges may need a written constitution to protect themselves from further political interference.Deploying increasingly militant language, he delivered a swingeing criticism of government plans both for a supreme court and the ousting of the courts from the review of asylum and immigration decisions. His criticisms focused on: 路 Clause 11 of the asylum and immigration bill which will prevent the courts from hearing appeals against decisions from immigration tribunals. The clause was "fundamentally in conflict with the rule of law and should not be contemplated by any government if it had respect for the rule of law", he said. 路 The proposed new supreme court, which would be a "poor relation" among the supreme courts of the world because of its more limited role, he claimed. It will have much the same jurisdiction as the law lords now have, and will be subordinate to the will of parliament. 路 The Home Office, which could end up dictating the agenda of the courts unless it was checked. On the basis of recent events, he said, he had "real concerns for the future". 路 Lord Falconer, the constitutional affairs secretary. His efforts to defend the asylum clause were "specious and unsatisfactory", Lord Woolf said, going on to describe him, in unusual language for the most senior judge, as "that engagingly friendly and cheerful chappie". England's top judge has been increasingly at loggerheads with the government across the board. In particular, the attempt by the government to remove the courts from asylum appeals has prompted him to vent his fury. He asserted the plan "would be a blot on the reputation of the government and undermine its attempts to be a champion of the rule of law overseas". He openly called on his fellow peers to throw out the measure when the asylum and immigration bill comes to the Lords. Lord Woolf revealed that the judges had been consulted in advance and had advised that the proposed clause 11 would be in conflict with the rule of law. "We advised that the clause was unlikely to be effective and identified why. The result was that clause 11 was extended to close the loopholes we had identified, instead of being abandoned as we had argued." Speaking at Cambridge University's faculty of law, he said: "I trust the clause will have short shrift in the Lords." But even the attempt to include it in legislation could result in a loss of confidence in the government's commitment to the rule of law, he added. "I am not over-dramatising the position if I indicate that, if this clause were to become law, it would be so inconsistent with the spirit of mutual respect between the different arms of government that it could be the catalyst for a campaign for a written constitution. "Immigration and asylum involve basic human rights. What areas of government decision making would be next to be removed from the scrutiny of the courts? What is the use of courts, if you cannot access them?" The Home Office defended what it called "radical reforms". A spokesman said: "If we had been cowed by previous criticisms we would never have halved asylum claims or got life meaning life for murderers. If Lord Woolf has some constructive suggestions to make about Home Office policy we would be happy to hear them." Alan Duncan, the shadow constitutional affairs spokesman, last night greeted Lord Woolf's comments as "dynamite". "Lord Woolf is protesting at the unprecedented interference of David Blunkett in the long-established judicial independence of our courts," he said. Lord Woolf said one of the most important of the judiciary's responsibilities was to uphold the rule of law, which prevented the government from abusing its powers and stopped a democracy descending into an elected dictatorship. To perform its task, the judiciary had to be, and be seen to be, independent of government. But there were many ways in which, consciously or unconsciously, the Department for Constitutional Affairs could give directions to court service staff which would result in the courts becoming a tool of government policy, he said. On the proposed supreme court, Lord Woolf said he was not "wholly hostile" to it, but called for a decision to be deferred till a home for the court had been found, and reform of the House of Lords was finally settled.