A murder hunt was launched early yesterday after police broke into a flat in Southampton and discovered the bodies of a disabled woman and her carer.Susan Hale, 49, who lived alone in a one-bedroom flat in the Townhill Park area of the city, and Sarah Merritt, were found dead on Thursday at about 5.20pm after neighbours reportedly heard a man shouting outside Ms Hale's flat.Police said they wanted to speak to David Tiley, a 47-year-old from Southampton, in connection with the murders.Officers broke in to the flat after Ms Merritt's council employers and her husband reported her missing, after she had failed to keep appointments and go home. A neighbour claimed that, earlier, a man had been heard screaming to be let into the flat while banging on the door.Graham McStay, 26, a roofer, who lives two doors along from Ms Hale, said a friend told him of "a guy banging on the door of Ms Hale's flat". The man had been holding a concrete block and shouting and demanding to be let in, the friend said.Chief Inspector Tim Ashman, leading the 50 officers in the murder hunt, said: "I would urge everyone to remain extra vigilant and take sensible precautions."Ms Hale's former partner, Stephen Atkinson, 52, said: "I was quite shocked when I found out last night ... I haven't had any contact with her since the day I moved out two years ago. She was quite a ... happy- go-lucky person, but she had a strong character as well."She suffered from cerebellar ataxia, a muscle wasting disease that affects the nervous system and causes unsteadiness and a lack of coordination. It had led to walking difficulties so she had used a mobility scooter.Ms Hale's sister, Barbara Smee, 53, from Portsmouth, said: "I'm still shaking, it's a big shock. I couldn't believe it. She had no enemies and I just can't believe anyone would do this to her. She was bubbly, she would help people if she could, she would do anything for anybody. "Ms Hale led an active life, and had a part-time job in a charity shop in Southampton.Mrs Smee said she suffered from the same genetic disorder as her sister, who has five grown up children. Of six siblings - three males and three females - she, Ms Hale and their brother Peter, all had cerebellar ataxia.Mrs Smee added: "She was diagnosed with the ataxia in 1989 and she has been getting gradually worse. It made her much more vulnerable and meant she couldn't walk properly. We couldn't see each other all the time, but I was always at the end of the phone for her."