  Former Plymouth Argyle goalkeeper at Stoke-on-Trent crown court. Photograph: Rui Vieira/PAA professional footballer was jailed yesterday for seven years for killing two brothers, aged 10 and eight, in a car he hit while driving drunk and jetlagged at almost 100mph.Luke McCormick, 25, who was a goalkeeper for Plymouth Argyle, had spent five days in New York before travelling directly to a team-mate's wedding in June, Stoke-on-Trent crown court was told.After drinking heavily and sleeping for two hours he drove off in an apparent attempt to resolve issues with his fiancee, ignoring a plea from a friend to stop driving. McCormick's black Range Rover, which police said was travelling at almost 100mph, ploughed into a Toyota people-carrier on the M6 in Staffordshire, sending it down an embankment and into trees.Arron Peak, 10, and his eight-year-old brother, Ben, were both killed. The boys' father, Phil Peak, 37, who had been driving them and three friends to a day out at Silverstone racetrack, was seriously injured. The other three suffered minor injuries.After the crash, the goalkeeper told witnesses at the scene: "I am so sorry, I'm sorry. I just fell asleep. I fell asleep, I'm sorry," the court heard. A breath test found he had 74 micrograms of alcohol in 100 millilitres of breath, just over twice the legal limit of 35.McCormick pleaded guilty yesterday to causing death by dangerous driving and driving with excess alcohol. The judge, Paul Glenn, jailed him for seven years and four months, calling the decision to drive "seriously culpable behaviour".The court was told McCormick drove directly from Heathrow airport to the wedding in Bolton. At the reception, the footballer appeared distressed over rumours about his fiancee's alleged infidelity, and was overheard saying he had to return to his home town of Coventry.After drinking beer and the spirit Sambuca, McCormick went to his hotel room at about 2am but left two hours later. He drove on despite receiving a phone call from a friend urging him to pull over. The judge told him: "You prioritised your own perceived needs, including, it seems, sorting out your love life, over the safety of other road users."The dead boys' mother, Amanda Peak, sobbed as the details of the incident were read out. Her husband, who suffered serious spinal injuries in the crash, sat in court in a wheelchair with a brace on his neck.A statement read by police on the couple's behalf outside the court said they were happy McCormick had "at last" pleaded guilty, but objected to a mitigation plea which described the effect of the crash on the footballer's life."We find this offensive," they said. "He will restart his life when he is still a young man. Our sons will never experience the things Luke has had."