A British couple's attempt at buying a house in the sun that ended in their kidnap, torture and murder culminated with their killers being jailed for more than 50 years yesterday.Anthony and Linda O'Malley, from Llangollen, north Wales, were house hunting for a villa in Benidorm when they disappeared in 2002. Their bodies were found in the cellar of a property they had gone to view. The two men who had tried to sell them the villa, Jorge Real and his brother-in-law Juan Antonio Velázquez, were sentenced after judges in Spain found them guilty.The O'Malleys met Real and Velázquez both from Venezuela, after responding to their advertisement for a villa near the town of Alcoy. The two fraudsters had placed the for-sale advertisement, in the Costa Blanca News, an English language newspaper, though the house was rented and did not belong to them.Anthony, 42, and Linda, 55, drove out in their Fiat Stylo hire car to view the small villa hidden among pine trees, a building that would become their jail and ultimately their burial place.It seems they were initially delighted with the villa and thought their search for somewhere to spend their retirement days was over.BeatenIt was unclear yesterday whether the two Venezuelans, who pleaded innocent, had intended killing the couple from the outset or whether their attempts at defrauding them had gone wrong.Prosecutors at the court in Alicante, where the men were jailed for a total of 116 years, had claimed that the men, who held the O'Malleys captive in the villa's cellar for five days, had always planned to kill their victims.The O'Malleys were reportedly kidnapped after agreeing to put down a cash deposit on the house but then going back to tell the men that they had got cold feet.Joanne Miles, a British estate agent in Benidorm, was the last person thought to have seen them alive, on September 6, outside their hotel. They told her they might need her help as they planned to buy a five-bedroom villa. They arranged to meet the next day, but the O'Malleys failed to turn up. The couple had earlier opened a bank account at a Spanish savings bank, the Caja de Ahorros del Mediterráneo, into which they transferred £21,000 from a British bank to use as a deposit.The court established that the couple were held for up to five days in the cellar of the building, possibly observed via a webcam. They were bound, chained and gagged. Mrs O'Malley showed signs of having been beaten, according to a forensic report read out at the trial.Mr O'Malley was taken to his bank at pistol-point and forced to withdraw €25,000 (£17,000) from his account. He was killed shortly afterwards, apparently through suffocation as a plastic bag was put over his head. He had neck injuries, had been gagged and also had his hands and feet bound, according to the police. His wife was believed to have died from a heart attack caused by the stress of the captivity.Real and Velázquez went on a spending spree with the couple's credit cards and even held on to their hire car.FraudThe O'Malleys, from Liverpool, had met and married after working together at a motorway service station in Cheshire. He went on to deal in secondhand cars and she ran a shop. They dreamed of retiring in the hills inland from Benidorm. The alarm was raised by relatives after the pair failed to return home. Mr O'Malley's brother, Bernard, and Mrs O'Malley's daughter, Nicola Welch, went to Benidorm.The key information for catching the killers, however, was proved by Real himself. Five months after the killings he contacted the National Missing Persons Helpline in Britain sayinghe was a private detective who could mediate in the couple's release. He claimed they were being held on the Spanish coast and demanded £32,000 to organise their release.Real's emails were traced to an internet cafe in Valencia. The description of him, from cafe staff, matched that of the man who used Mr O'Malley's credit card. Police found his mobile phone number, and a man believed to be Real spoke to an undercover British detective in a call later released to a BBC1 Real Story programme."They have moved these people two times, you know, from one place to another," Real said. "They are confined to a room. These people, they can keep them there for a year if they want to. And I ask, 'well what are you going to do with those people, you know? You're not going to, are you going to kill them? Or are you going to burn them?' And I start telling them, you know, 'that's stupid'."Spanish police arrested Real and as he got into a car, he reached for a bag containing a pistol and a false police badge. Spanish detectives told the court they thought he would have killed them too. Velázquez, who is Real's brother-in-law, kept the O'Malley's hire car. The cramped apartment the two men shared with their families in Valencia was dubbed a "fraud factory" by police who found documents there belonging to the O'Malleys alongside fake police identification and equipment for making false passports.It was Real who led police to the place where the British couple were buried, under a thin layer of cement in the villa's cellar. He blamed Velázquez for the killings.AstuteDetectives in Britain complained that Spanish police initially showed little interest in the O'Malleys. They said the force in Benidorm had been "less than interested" in the early stages of the investigation despite evidence that the couple's credit cards were being used fraudulently, according to the Press Association agency. They had swung into action only after the family made public appeals for help. Nicola Welch, Linda O'Malley's daughter from a previous marriage, also criticised the Spanish police. "It is a great concern for all of us, which is why we have made an effort to get the message out to people about the danger of buying property in Spain and other countries," she said. "Linda and Tony were really astute people ... it could happen to anybody."Real yesterday received jail sentences totalling 62 years, while Velázquez got a total of 54 years and six months."Today has been a long time coming. It has been a really difficult four years for everyone and we are very pleased with the outcome," said Bernard O'Malley.Nicola Welch said: "We have put them to rest and today we have seen justice done and that's the most we could have hoped for."