However aspirational we may be about removing all mental illness from the criminal justice system, there will always be a huge number of men, women and children in prison suffering from a range of low to medium-level disorders such as anxiety and depression, as well as many who appear on the full spectrum of personality disorders. Add to that unmet need among specific ethnic groups, the complexities of foreign national prisoners, older prisoners and the huge number with learning disabilities we have a recipe not only for despair but also for an increased likelihood of reoffending and the creation of more victims.Even the best prisons with the best regimes and the most committed staff will struggle to create an environment where anxiety and depression do not flourish. Distance from home and family (if either exist), frustration about the present, and anxiety over the future will all combine to make matters worse.The Social Exclusion Unit Report estimates that 70% of prisoners suffer from two or more commonly classified mental disorders. But the last Office for National Statistics survey was 1997; we urgently need a new psychiatric morbidity study of the prison population to begin to improve our overall knowledge of the incidence rate and impact of mental health in prisons.Forced marriageIn 2003, commissioning for prison healthcare services was transferred from the Home Office to the NHS. For many it was more a forced marriage than one made in heaven and some serious marriage guidance has been needed since. But this was without doubt a major and highly appropriate step forward and remains the best opportunity to emphasise that there is no such thing as prison health, merely public health concentrated in prisons.This has already begun in many aspects of physical health and in dealing with many diseases and blood-borne viruses. London prisons, for example, have done much to address new problems with tuberculosis by establishing screening and tracking programmes. HIV and hepatitis screening, together with ongoing counselling is provided by conscientious and committed specialists, often unnoticed and un-applauded by those outside the prison walls. Smoking cessation programmes are common, which is particularly important as the high level of tobacco consumption among prisoners (albeit regulated by limited incomes) means that smoking-related illnesses are the most likely cause of death for offenders.But, as in the outside world, depression and anxiety go largely untreated, particularly in smaller, lower security establishments where medical cover is provided largely by visiting, sessional GPs.At surgeries in the wider community, we know that a third of those who present each year have mental health problems and take up at least a third of GP time. We do not have that kind of information on prisoners. Neither is there the luxury of doctor-patient continuity that those on the outside enjoy, as research shows only 20% of prisoners are actually registered with a doctor when they arrive in prison. Therefore, they are not used to, and do not expect, the continuity you or I would demand.To address this unmet need, the Department of Health (DH) has not been idle in examining the problem of mental health. There is a national service framework on the issue and, more recently, the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (Nice) published detailed and comprehensive guidelines. There are criticisms about the extent of the implementation of these guidelines in the community, but they raise interesting questions about the effectiveness of different types of treatment, particularly cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) for dealing with anxiety and depression.Within prisons, CBT is used almost exclusively within offending behaviour programmes - not for dealing with mental health issues. There is a clear need to examine outcomes and cost effectiveness of any intervention at all stages within the care pathway, in prison or outside.But while a blueprint for treatment exists, how might it be delivered? The new models of joint working between prisons and primary care trusts (PCTs) provide a starting point. One of the greatest challenges while I was governor of Brixton prison in south London involved working with the chief executive of Lambeth primary care trust and his commissioners. All were committed to the cause and we were beginning to see real change in getting health resources into prison.Battles were hard won and ongoing, fought in the context of huge pressures on PCTs to deliver against all their other demands. My objective was to ensure that specialist mental health provision in the criminal justice system was seen as a core task rather than as an add-on. This was based on our own research into the psychiatric morbidity of the prisoners at Brixton and subsequent need. Such issues require debate, and it is not about a plea for resources but, rather, a need to use resources better. In any aspect of health we all know that success often comes from early diagnosis and treatment. This is as true for depression as it is for breast cancer.The new partnership arrangements are not perfect: the commissioning of healthcare in prisons often forms too small a part of the PCT agenda and at times is not receiving the priority attention required. This is understandable within the wider NHS agenda, but it is imperative for the criminal justice system to show that prison healthcare is part of a clear and transparent public health agenda where there can be clear and cost effective gains. There are win-wins for the NHS and the criminal justice system.Progressively worseThe prison service currently focuses mainly on serious mental disorder. But most prisoners do not start out as severely mentally ill. Without early treatment inmates can get progressively worse, and if mental health is not awarded the significance it requires, the descent into mental illness can be accelerated.The treatment models, care pathways and models of delivery are all potentially available to address a huge unmet need in the criminal justice system which blights individuals, communities and creates new victims. If we are to implement the national service framework and Nice guidelines for dealing with all mental health in prisons, as we surely must, then this is a clarion call to all stakeholders to produce prison mental health services fit for the 21st century. · John Podmore, a former governor of Brixton prison, is currently on secondment to the National Offender Management Service. This article is adapted from his 2006 Sainsbury Centre for Mental Health lecture, due to be delivered in London today. Details at www.scmh.org.uk · Any comments on this article? Write to society@theguardian.com