Age: 38.Appearance: Anywhere he likes now.Eh? An immigration tribunal has just overturned a three-year ban against the gangsta rapper entering the UK.But he looks like exactly the kind of lovable eccentric Britain is crying out for. And his jewellery could cut the national debt by half. Why is he banned? Is it because he is, you know, ah . . . "urban"? No, It's because last time he came here, in 2006, he and five of his entourage were arrested at Heathrow for violent disorder.Well, who hasn't got a little rambunctious when faced with the horrors of air travel? They smashed up the duty free area and injured eight police officers when they were told those with economy tickets could not go into the first-class lounge. Snoop was cautioned, although he was also seen on film taken at the time entertaining children at the airport.Fo' shizzle my nizzle! Don't. Just don't.Sorry. Still – a total ban seems harsh. If we stopped every celebrity who threw a strop during an international flight we would have no Gillian Anderson, no Amy Winehouse, Peter Buck, Diana Ross or Naomi Campbell. We'd be a cultural desert! Well, thanks to Snoop's legal team, who successfully argued that the ban affected their client's right to freedom of expression under Article 10 of the Human Rights Act, we look set to remain a lushly green and fertile land.Hurrah! And what will he be freely expressing, d'you think? His further thoughts on Hoes, Money and Clout or Payin' for Pussy, perhaps, if tracks from his 1998 album are anything to go by. Or on Break[ing] a Bitch Til I Die (2001's Duces'n Trayz)?Hmm. This human rights thing is a little tricky sometimes, isn't it? It is. But Snoop still needs a visa. And his previous multiple convictions for drug and gun offences may mean he is refused.I didn't know about those. And although he was cleared, the murder trial in 1993 probably won't help either.Gulp. Can I shizzle my nizzle now, please? Yes. Yes, you may.Do say: "Snoop, how lovely to see you – it's been too long!"Don't say: "Snoop! You haven't come here to kill me, have you?"