The prisoner who claims he heard confessions of murder by Michael Stone was so upset by what he heard that he needed medical help, the court of appeal was told today.Stone's lawyers are claiming, in their second appeal, that Stone was convicted of the hammer murders of Lin Russell and her daughter Megan on the evidence of an unreliable witness.Damien Daley told the jury at Stone's murder trial in 1998 that he heard a voice coming through the pipework at Canterbury prison confessing to the July 1996 killings in Chillenden, Kent. But Stone's lawyers say Mr Daley was seeking an advantage from the police or prison authorities and had concocted the story. Edward Fitzgerald QC, for Stone, has argued that the convictions should be quashed because Mr Daley was an unreliable witness who had lied about his heroin addiction.However Nigel Sweeney QC, for the crown, said today on the second day of the appeal that Mr Daley was so upset by the confession that a day later he was seen by a psychiatric nurse. "Mr Daley was complaining that he was so upset at what the appellant had told him that he had not been sleeping as a result," Mr Sweeney said, adding that the nurse prescribed him sleeping tablets. Mr Sweeney said that Mr Daley had never been put forward as a man of good character by the prosecution. He said it was "accepted that he was an individual who would lie when it suited him, that he was a character with previous convictions and he had tried or taken every drug that it was possible to take". The counsel for the crown said the defence was now relying on the fact that Mr Daley had lied about his addiction to heroin at Stone's trial. "We submit that this is very much in the genre where he had already made very substantial admissions as to his own failures." Mr Sweeney said Mr Daley had nothing to gain from the police or prison authorities by lying about the confession, which was the crucial evidence which convicted Stone. Stone, 44, was convicted at two separate trials of killing Dr Russell, 45, and Megan, six. He was also convicted of the attempted murder of Megan's sister Josie, who was nine at the time, and survived horrific head injuries.Dr Russell and her daughters were targeted as they walked home from a swimming gala. The first convictions in 1998 were quashed in February 2001 by three judges at the court of appeal and a retrial was ordered. In October that year, Stone was convicted for a second time after a trial at Nottingham crown court and his three life sentences were reimposed. However in March last year, Stone's lawyers, claiming that he did not receive a fair trial, won the right to another appeal. The lawyers have successfully applied at a hearing last year at the court of appeal for disclosure of prison and probation documents concerning Daley. Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Moses and Mr Justice Walker are hearing the case. The judges indicated before Mr Sweeney began his submissions that they did not accept as a part of the appeal an allegation from another prisoner, Paul Gilheaney, that Mr Daley had admitted in a conversation with other prisoners that he was lying over the Stone case and his evidence was lies. The hearing continues.