Everyone loves a mystery. Or, more specifically, everyone loves an ingeniously solved mystery. Examples abound, from Sherlock Holmes to the American TV series Crime Scene Investigation. This newest of crime dramas includes CSI: NY and CSI: Miami and, with the uber-attractive cast, fast-paced storylines and futuristic technologies, people are hooked. Now it might be time to add a new series to the franchise, CSI: Soil.Perhaps, on the face of it, not as glamorous sounding as its sister programmes, but new methods developed by geologists are helping the police to catch and convict the bad guys.Speaking at the British Science Festival in Bradford on Tuesday, scientists from the James Hutton Institute announced the founding of an international network aimed at integrating new forensic advances in expert knowledge for use throughout the world. The first meeting will be held in October in Rome.The UK, USA and Australia are currently leaders in this field but there are a number of other contributing countries.The scientists have developed new guidelines for how to collect and use soil evidence which can act as a set of rules for people to follow. Everyone will now have a gold standard for what to do and how to do it in order to have the best chance to catch the crooks.The methods are based on the fact that criminals will unwittingly pick up and deposit various different materials – a process called "content transference".The composition of soil is complex but it is this very complexity that makes these new methods so powerful. A sample at a crime scene may contain different fungus, bacteria, plant materials, mineral compositions, different types of grains of different sizes and shape, like gravel or sand, with different marks and scratches. Add to this different types of dyes, plastics, hairs and fibres of all kinds and it's easy to see how complicated things can get.For example, these forensic methods have identified hair from a specific dog known to be present at the scene of the crime which was attached to a suspect's shoe, or pieces of matching plastic have been found lodged in a shoe and at a murder scene. Carpet fibres can be traced back to a specific house or clothes fibres can be recovered from obstacles navigated for a getaway, like walls and fences.What's more, the new methods, developed in the UK since 2007, combine biological and chemical information with the physical information, like fingerprints.This work is led by Prof Lorna Dawson, the principle soil scientist at the James Hutton Institute, Aberdeen, and has involved collaboration with the National Soil Resources Institute (NSRI) and with various forensic experts in the National Policing Improvement Agency (NPIA) and the Forensic Science Service (FSS).Because of combining all of these different types of evidence and the fact that no two crimes are the same, a whole team of experts with diverse skills now needs to work together.An example of this happened for a murder hunt led by Northern Constabulary in Scotland. In this case, the soil information was used to first eliminate areas where the crime was not. Then sand from where the body was left was found on a spade and metal from the spade was found at the same site.Even more diverse evidence was used in 2007 to solve a burglary in Derbyshire, using a trail of physical, chemical and biological evidence. CCTV showed the offenders wearing certain distinctive shoes, DNA linked the offenders to the shoes and soil on the shoes linked them to the scene of the crime.And it's not just criminal forensics. These methods can be used for environmental forensics too. For example, scientists are working with the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs to identify fly-tippers.This all makes you wonder what Sherlock Holmes would have made of these new methods. These examples clearly show that real life can be just as intriguing as fiction, and certainly not elementary.