New powers to be announced tomorrow will make it mandatory for judges to order the seizure of the ill-gotten gains of drug traffickers and other convicted criminals.Home Office ministers will announce that they have set a new, specialised criminal assets recovery agency a target of more than doubling the value of the assets seized -including houses, businesses and vehicles - to £60m by 2204. The new proceeds of crime bill to be published tomorrow will also contain concessions to meet some of the civil liberties' concerns raised by critics. These include safeguards to prevent civil recovery proceedings being used to seize the assets of innocent third parties. The measures are among changes made over the summer to a draft version of the bill which was published before the general election and which leading lawyers claimed would breach the Human Rights Act. A legal opinion by Clare Montgomery QC, of Matrix Chambers, for the civil rights organisation Liberty, claimed the bill in its previous form would not only "destroy the essence of the presumption of innocence" but could also lead to "arbitrary and irrational results". But Home Office ministers are now believed to be confident that the bill does comply with the the European convention on human rights. They point to three recent cases in the Strasbourg court that support the legislative use of a lesser civil burden of proof, rather than the tougher criminal test, to decide if assets are the result of criminal activity. Under the bill, the accused will have to prove that, on balance of probabilities, their assets were not derived from criminal conduct, or face a criminal confiscation order. Civil liberties campaigners have complained that the bill will mean that somebody accused by the police will have to disclose all their private financial affairs first to the police and then in public at a trial. But ministers hope to calm such fears by stressing that the new powers should not be used as a "soft option" as an alternative to a full-scale prosecution of a serious criminal. Ministers have also long been concerned that previous attempts to step up the seizure of criminal assets have foundered in Britain on a reluctance by the judges to use the powers. The bill will oblige the courts to make confiscation orders in drug trafficking and other cases. The criminal assets recovery agency, along with police and customs and excise, will draw up a strategy to step up use of these powers. Criminal confiscation powers are widely used in the US and Ireland. Ministers say that only about £25m worth of criminal assets were seized in Britain last year while £735m worth of drugs were seized and where the total assets of organised crime were estimated to be worth about 2% of the gross domestic product.