Police today said they planned to show the stabbing victim Abigail Witchalls a photograph of a neighbour and suspect who has killed himself.Richard Cazaly, 23, drove from his home in Little Bookham, Surrey, to Scotland before taking a fatal overdose of painkillers several days after Mrs Witchalls was attacked. He died on April 30 in Edinburgh Royal Infirmary. Surrey police confirmed that they had searched the home Mr Cazaly shared with fellow garden centre workers on Water Lane, the road where Mrs Witchalls was walking when she first saw her attacker on April 20. Detectives are examining a suicide note Mr Cazaly left behind as well as a DNA sample taken from his body that will be compared with samples taken from the scene of the attack, in Little Bookham.Police said Mr Cazaly had not been considered a suspect before he left for Scotland. A neighbour of Mr Cazaly's mother said she believed he had taken an overdose for reasons unconnected with the attack."I was told that the girlfriend was going back to Australia, and he was upset that she was going back, when he committed suicide," Sinsillia Rutherford said. Mr Cazaly had been spoken to by police in the course of routine door-to-door inquiries, a Surrey police spokesman revealed today. Northern Constabulary said Mr Cazaly had been found next to his car at around 2am on April 28. He was in the Wester Ross area of the Scottish Highlands, on the Kinlochewe to Gairloch road, one mile west of Kinlochewe. He was taken by ambulance to hospital in Inverness after a suspected overdose and was transferred later that day to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary's liver unit, where he died. Some of the information about Mr Cazaly released by police today appeared to fit the description of events given by Mrs Witchalls, who was left paralysed after she was stabbed once in the neck. Mr Cazaly drove a blue Volvo 440, which police have now recovered and examined, and Mrs Witchalls told police the attacker was driving a blue car when she first saw him. Police also said Mr Cazaly generally fitted the physical description of the attacker Mrs Witchalls had given them.Some details, however, did not match up: police said Mr Cazaly had a distinctive three-quarter-inch hole in one earlobe with an earring inside, and a normal earring in the other ear; Mrs Witchalls said her attacker had two looped silver earrings. Mr Cazaly also had a goatee beard, whereas Mrs Witchalls said her attacker was clean shaven.A police spokesman said today: "The thing that brought him to our attention is the fact that he disappeared and the fact that he appears to have taken this overdose. That is the thing that brought him into the frame as a suspect. "He was spoken to before he left by officers doing routine door-to-door inquiries because he lived so close to the scene of where this happened. He was also, I believe, stopped in a road check and questioned as well, but really as a witness; they were not questioning him as a potential suspect. There was nothing that he said or did when he was spoken to that caused any alarm." The spokesman added that Surrey police had first learned of Mr Cazaly's disappearance when the hospital in Scotland contacted them in an attempt to trace his next of kin. The spokesman continued: "We didn't get his name into the system until after he had left for Scotland. He left on the 25th. We didn't get his name until the day after that, the 26th. We had spoken to him but his name had not been given to us as someone of interest until the 26th." He confirmed that police had not been to see Mrs Witchalls in hospital since a video ID parade was held in which she failed to pick out a 25-year-old Surrey man who had been questioned over the attack. Commenting on Mr Cazaly, the spokesman said: "It could be him, by the description. The description does not rule him out, but there are some things that puzzle us. He does have earrings, but they are quite unusual earrings ... He also had short hair, while Abigail said scruffy hair." Mr Cazaly had been living in Little Bookham for only a few weeks and had been a casual worker at a garden centre for a few months. Police today escorted five young people from his house, a short walk from where 26-year-old Mrs Witchalls was stabbed. They were driven away in a white van and refused to answer questions from reporters about Mr Cazaly. Mrs Witchalls was walking along the lane close to Mr Cazaly's home when she was approached by a stranger who held a knife to the throat of her 21-month-old son, Joseph, before plunging it into her neck and throwing the buggy on to her. In a graphic description of her ordeal, communicated only through blinks and facial movements, Mrs Witchalls told police how she first saw her attacker at the wheel of a blue car in Water Lane. She became uneasy when their eyes met and fled along an adjoining lane in the direction of the house she shares with her husband, Benoit, and his parents. But the attacker followed her, and after holding the knife to Joseph's throat ordered her to walk towards him. He stabbed her, leaving her for dead in a narrow, muddy lane. Mr Cazaly, who was British, was travelling around the UK doing itinerant work. He had been living and spending time with friends from Australia but it is unclear whether they were travelling together. Police sources indicated that before his death there was nothing in his background that would have aroused suspicion or made him a priority suspect. It is understood he had no previous criminal convictions. Police are now taking statements from his friends, colleagues and family, who are believed to live somewhere in the local area.