A 14-year-old boy and 15-year-old girl have been arrested following the fatal stabbing of a teenage boy in Leicester today.The 16-year-old boy was discovered dead on Fosse Road South in the Westcotes area, south east of the city centre.A 31-year-old woman has also been arrested in connection with the incident.Police had been called to the street following the report of an assault just after 5am.The area has been cordoned off for forensic examination and a post mortem examination is due to take place later this afternoon. Formal identification has not yet taken place.Detective chief inspector Phil Smith, who is leading the investigation, said: "We are in the very early stages of the investigation and are trying to piece together exactly what happened."I would appeal to anyone who witnessed the incident, was in the area at the time or has any information that could help with our investigation to get in touch urgently." Police have yet to formally identify the murder victim, but he was named locally as college student Bradley Whitfield, a keen footballer, rugby player and swimmer.Several bunches of flowers and notes were left at the edge of the police cordon this afternoon amid claims that he may have been attacked with a broken bottle.One of the notes, signed by Liam and family, read: "Brad. We had some great times mate - can't believe you have gone. We will miss you always."Another tribute, placed at the scene by a female friend, said simply: "Can't believe you've gone Brad."A third note read: "To Bradders. When I woke up I heard the news and my heart sank ... You were a top lad and I will always miss you. Remember our little stupid moments, funny moments and happy moments."Local people said they were shocked that Bradley, who is thought to have been killed after leaving a New Year party, had been targeted.Shane Faulkner, a close friend of Bradley's family, said: "I am just shocked it has happened to him - he's definitely not that type of lad."He was looking forward to a career as a PE instructor and everyone will tell you the same thing about him - he was never in any kind of trouble...You will get the same message from everyone around here - I have never ever known him to be in trouble."Bradley's father, who lives less than half a mile from the scene of his son's death, was too upset to speak to reporters.Other residents spoke of their shock that a teenager had died in violent circumstances in the area and none appeared to have any idea of the motivation for the attack.One woman, who asked not to be named, said: "We were told first that it was a stabbing and then we got told it was a broken bottle, but what has really happened we just don't know. This is a nice road and the neighbours are good. I know the boy who died to talk to and he just seemed a nice quiet lad."Anyone with any information is asked to contact Leicestershire Constabulary on 0116 222 2222.· In another fatal stabbing, an 18-year-old man knifed this morning in Edmonton, north London, as he made his way home from New Year's Eve celebrations in the centre of the capital, Scotland Yard said.