A man who killed his former girlfriend and her two teenage children with a hammer was jailed for a minimum of 38 years yesterday.Pierre Williams, 33, had a brief scuffle in the dock at Manchester crown court as the guilty verdict was read out. He had to be held down and restrained by three court staff as he protested his innocence.Williams was convicted of killing Beverley Samuels, 36, and her daughter, Kesha Wizzart, 18, and son, Fred Wizzart, 13, at their home in Fallowfield, Manchester, early on July 12 last year. Both mother and daughter had been subjected to a sexual assault by Williams before they were murdered. The court had been told of similar sexual attacks on Williams's previous girlfriends. The prosecution said he had killed Samuels and her two children to satisfy his perverted sexual pleasure. Williams killed his victims by hitting them over the head with a 2lb hammer. Hours before the murders, he had been seen socialising with two female friends in Manchester. The court had heard he had met Samuels in 2005 and they had an intermittent relationship which ended in 2006. But he continued to call at her home uninvited and had a key.Kesha had just completed her A-levels and was looking forward to studying law. She had appeared on the television programme Young Stars in Their Eyes performing Toni Braxton's Unbreak My Heart. Although she did not win, her voice impressed the judges and she produced a CD of her music after winning a local radio competition.Williams had grown up in the city's Moss Side area before moving to Birmingham. Ray Wigglesworth, prosecuting, told the jury they needed to consider whether he had a propensity for violence towards women. "Pierre Williams brutally murdered the family in their own home. The scientific evidence suggests that the murder weapon was an engineer's hammer with a long wooden shaft, and each of the deceased died as a result of severe blows to the head with this weapon."Samuels, a nurse at Manchester Royal Infirmary, was found lying face down on her bed covered by a duvet and with the murder weapon nearby. She had been hit in the head at least seven times. Hours after the killings, a bank cashier who served Williams said he appeared pleasant and chatty. He later sold his victims' mobile phones to a cab driver and a Birmingham stallholder.In court, Williams blamed a hooded figure for the attacks. Yet blood from each of his victims was found on his clothes.Detective Superintendent Ian Foster, who led the investigation, said: "We may never know what drove him to carry out such horrific attacks - he has never given any explanation for the murder and I know that has been hard for the family to deal with. We would still like him to tell us exactly what happened, if only to give the family some peace of mind."