A woman was yesterday found guilty of murdering her 100-year-old aunt, a former dressmaker to the Queen, after trying to be become sole heir to her £300,000 property.Violet Durling, who had worked for the royal couturier Sir Norman Hartnell, died after Susan Turner, 48, from Barkingside, east London, started a blaze in a workshop below the flat where Durling lived.A jury at the Old Bailey heard that Turner, who had been adopted, felt she had suffered financially at the hands of her family. Jurors in a previous trial earlier this year had failed to reach a verdict.Turner was convicted at the second trial after prosecutors were allowed to present crucial forensic evidence. The court heard that a partial DNA profile of the killer was detected on a blue bottle top, from an accelerant container, found at the scene.Turner, who represented herself, had denied having anything to do with her aunt's death. "I loved my aunt, I would never have hurt my aunt," she told the court. "All I have ever done was try to protect her, that's all."Turner had already inherited more than £100,000 in her adopted father's will. But after killing her aunt she went on a "ferocious" spending spree around Europe, jurors were told.Peter Kyte QC, prosecuting, said she felt hostility to the rest of her family and that she had been "badly-treated financially". He said her behaviour had been bizarre and erratic in the days leading up to the murder.Durling, who the court heard was close to her niece, had made a will in 2001 in which she left the business to Turner, her brother Siddie, and their sister, with the remainder of the estate being left to Turner and her two daughters.But a month before Durling's death Turner unsuccessfully tried to have the will changed so that the whole of the business passed to her. She was already going through her previous inheritance at "quite a rate" and had spent £50,000 by the time of her aunt's death.On February 17 last year Siddie Durling closed up the family shop in Plaistow, east London, which specialised in reconditioning car engines. An employee opened up on Monday morning to discover there had been a fire and found Durling's body in the kitchen of the flat upstairs.Fire investigators discovered containers of brake fluid, which they believed had been used to start the blaze. The main fire on a shelf in the shop, whose fumes were thought to be the likely cause of Durling's death, was doused when water stored on a shelf above fell on it. But whoever started the fire then tried to light another blaze on the stairs leading up to her flat.There was no sign of forced entry so whoever started the fire must have let themselves in or have been let in by Durling, the jury heard.Burnt items of clothing were found in a barbecue at Turner's home after Durling's death. Turner had by then already fled on a one-way ticket to Amsterdam, from where she also travelled to France, Italy and Spain. She was finally arrested in August last year after returning to Britain.The case was adjourned until February 11 so a QC could be instructed to appear on Turner's behalf at a sentencing hearing.