8.18am: Twelve people are confirmed dead and three are seriously injured after a taxi driver, Derrick Bird, went on the rampage in the UK's worst shooting incident since the Dunblane massacre.Bird's twin brother, David is believed to have been his first victim. The names of at least six other victims are also known.Cumbria police said they did "not understand the real motivation" for Bird's actions. But there are a number theories circulating. Some locals spoke of an argument with fellow taxi drivers, while others talked of a dispute over the will of Bird's reportedly ailing mother.The police are trying to piece together the sequence of events yesterday. This interactive timeline shows where and when some of the incidents took place.The shootings dominate today's newspapers. The Sun describes Bird as "Evil in Paradise", and asks whether Britain ought to review its gun laws. Its leader says: Bird had huge and fearsome weapons. Were they legal? And if so, should alarm bells not ring when someone in a terraced house leading an apparently ordinary life seeks permission to equip himself with such firepower?Similar questions are asked by the Guardian, which calls for an inquiry:It should focus on what happened, whether the gun licensing system is properly enforced, not just in Cumbria but elsewhere, and whether more can be done to flush out illegal weapons. If loopholes can be plugged by new laws, so be it. Ours is a safe country. It must remain one.Writing in the Daily Mail, David Wilson, professor of criminology at Birmingham City University, examines the psychological motives of Bird's actions:It was a sadistic act of self-loathing. In effect, Bird would have been looking into the mirror as he pulled the trigger. It was a step that foreshadowed his own self-inflicted demise shortly afterwards.8.31am: Cumbria police have released this map showing the route that it believed Bird took.It also gave these details:He [Bird] is believed to have travelled on the A5086 between Lamplugh and Whitehaven, through Lowther Street, Duke Street Coach Road, Low Road, Kells Road, Ennerdale Terrace, Woodhouse Estate and High Road in Whitehaven onto the B5345 to Main Street in St Bees. He is also believed to have travelled from Whitehaven from St Bees to Rigg Road towards Egremont, Grove Road, South Street, Vale View, Bridge End/Woodbank area then out towards Wilton, Haile and the A595. He is then thought to have travelled to Oxenrigg Farm area, down Thorny Lane, Gosforth and then onto the B5344 towards Drigg Road in Seascale then onwards to Boot.Anyone with information or who thinks they may have seen Derrick Bird over the last 24 hours is asked to contact police on 0845 33 00 247.8.42am: Helen Carter, who is in Whitehaven, has this:   Helen Carter byline. Photograph: Christopher Thomond/The GuardianThe deputy chief constable of Cumbria constabulary, Stuart Hyde, confirmed this morning that Derrick Bird was a licensed gun holder. Speaking in Whitehaven, Hyde said: "He had a shotgun certificate and a firearms licence for weapons, but we do not know at this stage whether the weapons that we recovered are those he was licensed for. A detailed ballistic examination is being undertaken to confirm this."He confirmed that a local solicitor, Kevin Commons, aged 60, who worked for KJ Common solicitors, was among the 12 victims.Jamie Reed, the Copeland MP, said: "We will be doing everythng we can now as a community, coming together to help the families of the victims, to help everyone that has been affected by this. That is our priority."The Cumbria force also said it has been been inundated with calls as part of the investigation. Officers said today they had received 1,400 calls from members of the public.8.53am: The News & Star, Cumbria's daily paper, has named 11 of the 12 victims – although most of these names have not been confirmed. They are: David Bird, Kenneth Fishburn, Kevin Commons, Darren Rewcastle, Garry Purdham, Susan Hughes, Jennifer Jackson, Jim Jackson, Jane Robinson, Mike Pike and Ike Dixon.9.04am: The Whitehaven News has set up an online condolence book.Casson Toomey writes: RIP to all those innocent people killed. To the injured, I hope you make a full recovery and continue your lives as normal. My uncle (Gary Toomey) was a man who witnessed one of the shootings. He rushed out of his house to help the man, he got towels to stop the bleeding. In my eyes he's a hero. Well done Uncle Gary.9.40am: Eight of Bird's victims remain in hospital, an NHS spokesman told PA. One patient at the West Cumberland hospital, Whitehaven, is in a stable condition. One patient being treated at a hospital in Newcastle is also in a stable condition. Two patients at Carlisle's Cumberland infirmary are in a stable condition and two in a comfortable condition. Two patients at the West Cumberland hospital, Whitehaven, are in a comfortable condition.9.50am: The incident shows that police should be armed, argues police blogger Inspector Gadget.I bet you are glad that we are armed with an aluminium expandable stick, a few grams of pepper and some handcuffs.Oh, and a stab vest just in case. How can we protect the public, or even ourselves, with equipment like this?It really does come to something when you realise that even if you call the police to deal with this kind of thing, we can't help you until a specialist unit arrives from the other side of the county, and then they are constrained by so much pre-planning and procedure that they really can't intervene in any kind of real time anyway.In European countries, the very first police who arrive at the scene can engage the gunman immediatelyI support the routine arming of all UK mainland police officers at all times.9.59am: ITN has tracked down footage of one of the victims Garry Purdham, a local farmer and rugby player. This report posted on YouTube shows Purdham feeding cattle, playing rugby and being interviewed two years ago before a big match.10.12am: The News & Star has now named all 12 victims. It has added the name Jamie Clark to a list of 11 names it published earlier earlier (see 8.53am).It says Clark was "driving near Seascale when Bird opened fire. An estate agent, he had only moved from Buckinghamshire to Carlisle last year to live with his fiancee."So far the police have only confirmed the name of one of the victims: Kevin Commons, a local solicitor.10.31am: Local journalist and blogger Richard Osley thinks the media should revisit Charlie Brooker's Newswipe warning about the the way rolling news covers mass killings.Brooker quoted Dr Park Pietz, a forensic psychiatrist, who said: "We have had 20 years of mass murders, throughout which I have repeatedly told CNN and other media if you don't want to propagate more mass murders don't start the story with sirens blaring, don't have photographs of the killer, don't make this 24/7 coverage, do everything you can not to make the body count the lead story ... not to make the killer some kind of anti-hero, do localise this story to the affected community and make it as boring as possible."   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close 10.34am: The home secretary, Theresa May, is due to give a statement to the Commons at 12pm. Here's what she said yesterday:This is clearly an ongoing investigation so it would not be appropriate for me to comment on the details. It is right that the facts should come from the police and they will release further details as appropriate.However, they have already confirmed that 12 people have been killed and at least 25 people have been injured.I will be making a statement updating the house tomorrow. In the meantime, I want the people of Cumbria to know that they have my support and are in my thoughts.10.46am: Cumbria police has announced that it does not expected to find any more victims of the shootings.It said: In total 13 people were killed including the offender Derrick Bird and 11 others were injured. We have now concluded a 150km land and air search of the known and possible routes he could have used and as a result we are not expecting to find any further victims.Yesterday it said there were around 30 separate crime scenes. Today it gave details of 19 crime scenes.They are:  • Duke Street, Whitehaven - shots fired and a man killed.• Orgill, Haggard End, Egremont - shots fired and one person killed.• Town End farm, Wilton - a man and a woman were killed after shots fired.• Woodbank, Egremont - shots discharged.• Bridge End, Egremont - shots fired and one person killed.• Coach Road, Whitehaven - shots fired.• Scotch Street, Whitehaven - shots fired.• Gosforth, Red Admiral - shots fired and one man killed.• Seascale railway station - shots fired.• Yeat House Road, Frizington - 60-year-old Kevin Joseph Commons found dead on driveway of his home suffering shotgun wounds.• Shaw Road, Drigg - shots fired.• Between Hale and Egremont near Carleton Wood - shots fired and one man killed.• Drigg Road, Seascale - shots fired and one man and one woman killed.• Gosforth Road, Seascale - shots fired and one man killed.• Unident, Seascale - shots fired.• High Trees, Lamplugh - shots fired and one man killed.• Eskdale Green - shots fired.• Outside Hollins Cottage Camp Site - shots fired.• Wooded area in Boot - Derrick Bird found dead.11.01am: Here's a summary of events so far.• The 12 people killed by Derrick Bird have been named locally. Eight people remain in hospitals across the north of England. Four patients are in a stable condition; the remainder are described as "comfortable".• The home secretary, Theresa May, is due to a make a statement in the House of Commons at midday. Yesterday she said she wanted "the people of Cumbria to know that they have my support and are in my thoughts".• Reports are suggesting Bird may have been involved in a family row before his rampage . Locals spoke yesterday of an apparent argument with fellow taxi drivers in Whitehaven.11.04am: Here is a video of Stuart Hyde, Cumbria police's deputy chief constable, who says local emergency services are "completely stretched".  Paul Lewis Photograph: Sarah Lee11.13am: Guardian reporter Paul Lewis is in west Cumbria visiting the areas where Bird shot his victims. He writes: If people want to know why Bird was on the loose for up six hours, shooting bystanders as he went, without being intercepted by police, they need only look at the geography. Already it is apparent he drove through winding country lanes - many of the scenes of crime are impossible to find. The remoteness of these places also explains why some bodies were not discovered for hours. Driving down the route he took - undulating hills marked by neat hedgerows springing to life with early summer flowers - makes the spree seem even more unreal than it must appear on television.11.20am: Yesterday three of Bird's injured victims were in a critical condition in hospital. Today their condition has improved to stable, the NHS has confirmed.11.27am: NHS Cumbria is offering psychological support sessions to those affected by the shootings, the Westmorland Gazette reports. A spokesperson told the paper: "We are setting up effective and co-ordinated support services for people traumatised by the appalling events. This will include support for GPs in the area who we expect will receive a number of cases associated with the psychological affects of today."There will also be a stepping up of support available from dedicated mental health services in the county."11.41am: Peter Squires, professor of criminology and public policy at the university of Brighton, argues that gun owners should not be allowed to store ammunition.Writing on Comment is Free he says:"We can't look into a crystal ball to say who may or may not be about to go off the rails/encounter depression/be consumed by murderous rage – but we ought not let them have the means to perpetrate a mass shooting outrage if and when they do. Keeping guns separate from ammunition would make such incidents preventable – and our communities safer places."11.46am: Could the police have stopped Derrick Bird sooner?Writing on the Whitehaven News' online condolence book Bob Lunn says: "I feel sorry for the people who have died, and the family and friends that they left behind. But how was this guy not stopped sooner? I can understand the inevitable two or three people getting shot, but 12 dead? The police should have been all over it as soon as there was a reported shooting."Simon, another contributor, said: "Fair enough, Cumbria is a big county, but when you've got two police helicopters in the air, and most of Cumbria police mobilised, you wonder why it took them so long."A Cumbria Police spokeswoman told PA the force could not comment on the criticism.The Independent Police Complaints Commission said Cumbria Police would decide whether it needed to refer any matters to the watchdog "in due course".12.08pm: Helen Carter emails from Cumbria:  Helen Carter byline. Photograph: Christopher Thomond/The GuardianCecil Sawh, a close friend of Kenneth Fishburn, who died yesterday, returned to the scene at the road bridge in Egremont today to pay tribute to him."We are both ex-forces and served in the Royal Artillery but in different regiments," he said. "He was a very quiet man, who enjoying placing the odd bet. He would take sweets in to the staff in the betting shop - they are absolutely devastated. Ken was a well-liked person who had a military bearing and walked with dignity."Sawh said he also knew another of the victims, taxi driver Darren Rewcastle. "I saw him in the betting shop the other day and he was playing on one of the machines."He also knew Derrick Bird, as he had fixed his television, who was smartly-dressed and polite.12.16pm: The home secretary, Theresa May, is making a statement to the House of Commons on the shootings.12.18pm: May pays tribute to Cumbria police. She says communities there "have been touched by tragedy too many times in recent months".12.19pm: May says police are releasing names of the dead as and when formal identification has been confirmed.12.21pm: May says police have confirmed to her that Bird's firearms licences covered both the weapons recovered yesterday.He has had a shotgun since 1995, and a license for the .22 rifle since 2007.Police believe Bird took his own life, May says.12.23pm: The government will debate firearms once police have reported on the killings."We should do everything we can to stop it happening again," May adds."Where there are lessons to be learnt we will learn them, where there are changes to be made we will change them."12.25pm: The shadow home secretary Alan Johnson says MPs may need to focus on the question of follow up checks on people with firearms licences.12.36pm: May said that prime minister David Cameron will visit the area of the shootings tomorrow.Downing Street revealed this morning that Cameron had spoken last night to the chief constable of Cumbria police, who updated him on the situation.A spokesman for the prime minister said the chief constable told him the police teams felt they had all the resources they needed.12.47pm: We'll be posting the full text of May's statement to the Commons shortly.Here's the home secretary's closing remarks, saying parliament should wait for police to finish investigating before debating firearms laws.Undoubtedly, yesterday's killings will prompt a debate about our country's gun laws. That is understandable – and indeed it is right and proper. But it would be wrong to react before we know the full facts. Today we must remember the innocent people who were taken from us as they went about their lives. Then, we must allow the police time to complete their investigations. When the police have reported, the government will enter into, and lead, that debate. We will engage with all interested parties. We will consider all the options. And we will make sure that Hon Members have the opportunity to contribute – I will be talking to my Rt Hon Friend the Leader of the House about the best way to ensure Members have such an opportunity before the summer recess.Mr Speaker, mass killings as we experienced yesterday is – fortunately – extremely rare in our country. But that doesn't make it any the less painful, and it doesn't mean we shouldn't do everything we can to stop it happening again. Where there are lessons to be learned, we will learn them. Where there are changes to be made, we will make them. But for now, let us wish the injured victims a speedy recovery, remember the twelve innocent lives that were taken, and pray for the families and friends they leave behind.1.03pm: Church leaders in Cumbria have issued statement on the shootings, the Whitehaven News reports. They also offered a prayer for the community. Here's an extract:"We give thanks for the commitment and dedication of the emergency servicesAnd pray that they may be given the strength they need to serve othersWe give thanks for the resilience and courage of West CumbriansAnd pray that the bonds of community care and concern may hold fast at this time"1.09pm: Here's the full statement from Theresa May. Speaking at a press conference David Cameron warned against a "knee-jerk" change to the gun laws.1.22pm: Here's a lunchtime summary of the main points so far:• The 12 people killed by Derrick Bird have been named locally. Cumbria police are expected to confirm the names when formal identification has taken place and when all immediate family members have been informed. Eight people remain in hospitals across the north of England. Four patients are in a stable condition; the remainder are described as "comfortable".• The home secretary, Theresa May, confirmed that the two weapons used by Bird were both licensed. She said it was right to debate Britain's gun laws, "but it would be wrong to react before we know the full facts."• David Cameron is to visit Cumbria tomorrow with May. He warned against a "knee-jerk" change to gun laws. • Reports are suggesting Bird may have been involved in a family row before his rampage . Locals spoke yesterday of an apparent argument with fellow taxi drivers in Whitehaven.1.26pm: My colleague Haroon Siddique has compiled profiles on all 12 victims named locally.The Telegraph has published a Google Map showing where each of the victims were killed.1.54pm: Eyewitness Barrie Moss tells ITN about the last moments of one of the victims as he tried in vain to save her life.The Liverpool Echo has a graphic account of one of those injured by Bird.Don Reed, an former soldier from Croxteth, was shot in the back after seeing his friend shot in the face."Everything kicked in. I started crawling on my elbows and knees which are now ripped. My legs wouldn't let me stand up as I saw him walking towards me.I got next to Darren Rewcastle on the floor. His face was gone. I stood up and Derrick came forward as I tried to open taxi doors to put between us.Then a fella called Richard Webster ran across shouting 'Derrick what the f*** are you doing?'"When he came for me, my idea was duck and dive, roll and move. My mind was gone. I've heard bombs go off in Northern Ireland but nothing like this.Being shot is a first for me. I thought my day was gone – my back was burning. I haven't a clue why he did it, it's beyond my comprehension."2.36pm: Paul Lewis emails:  Paul Lewis Photograph: Sarah LeeI'm now in Seascale, perhaps the scene of the most horrific killings. Here, it seems Bird shot almost everyone he saw. Four victims died the space of a mile. It is a beautiful seaside village, and I can see children paddling on the shingle. Yesterday they had been rushed indoors as word that the gunman was heading their way spread.Locals are full of praise for police, but here - the final leg of my journey tracking Bird's route - there is some controversy. The complaints relate to the decision to switch off all mobile phone coverage in the area, perhaps a move related to the nearby Sellafield nuclear plant. It meant anxiety and panic spread, with people unable to call children and relatives to check they were okay, I'm told. The question people are asking here is whether mobile phones had been working, the message to clear the streets would have got out earlier, potentially saving lives.2.45pm: David Cameron has vowed that everything possible would be done to prevent a repeat of the Cumbria killings, but warned against a "knee-jerk reaction" to the shootings.The prime minister said the people of the area where Derrick Bird carried out his murders had been through "appalling suffering".Cameron, who is visiting the county tomorrow with Home Secretary Theresa May to meet senior police officers, said he wanted to ensure they had everything they needed to complete their investigations."All of us should be thinking of the people of West Cumbria, of the appalling suffering that they went through yesterday," he said."We must do absolutely everything to complete this investigation, to make sure that everything is done to make sure that events like this cannot happen again in our country, and to help bring those communities back together."Cameron acknowledged that there would be a debate on whether the gun laws needed to be changed in the light of yesterday's events, but cautioned against any rush to judgment."The right thing to do is of course to look at all of these issues and have an open mind," he said."But we should be clear that in this country we have some of the toughest gun control legislation anywhere in the world and we shouldn't make any knee-jerk reaction to think that there is some instant legislative or regulatory answer."He added: "Of course we have to do everything we can to stop these dreadful events, but you can't legislate to stop a switch flicking in someone's head and for this dreadful sort of action to take place."3.08pm: :• The home secretary, Theresa May, has promised a review of Britain's gun laws following yesterday's shootings in Cumbria. She said it would be wrong to act before the full facts about Derrick Bird's killing spree were known, but said a debate of firearms laws was "right and proper".• David Cameron warned against "knee-jerk" legislative action following the shootings. He and May will visit the area of the killings tomorrow. • The home secretary revealed in a statement to the House of Commons that Derrick Bird was licenced to use both weapons. Bird had had a licence for a shotgun since 1995 and a licence for a rifle since 2007.• All 12 victims of yesterday's shootings have been named locally. Police have formally identified one of the dead, solicitor Kevin Commons, 60.3.16pm: Charles Brett, clinical director for emergency care at West Cumberland hospital, in Whitehaven, is giving a press conference:He says five of the people admitted to hospital were shot in the face.All patients were adults."All patients were calm and composed," Brett said. Six patients remain in hospitals in Cumbria, he added. (This is one less than earlier today.) Two are said to be stable and serious, and four comfortable. One of the patients was transferred to hospital in Newcastle.3.28pm: My colleague James Meikle, who is working on our main news story on the shootings, has just called Newcastle upon Tyne hospitals trust, but unfortunately they are unable to give updates on the welfare of the patient there at the moment.4.00pm: Good afternoon, this is Haroon Siddique taking over from Adam.Cumbria chief constable Craig Mackey is giving a press conference.Yesterday's events were "utterly tragic". His thoughts and prayers are with the friends and families of the victims.A "major police investigation" is underway involving more than 100 officers. The continued support of the community is needed to establish how and why what happened occurred.A 225km land and air search has been concluded.4.04pm: Mackey says more than 30 family liaison officers are working in the community.The identity of four victims can be confirmed, he says:- Susan Hughes, 57-year-old mother of two, described by her family as "completely irreplaceable"- Jane Robinson- David Bird, brother of Derrick Bird- Solicitor Kevin Commons4.11pm: Head of Cumbria CID Ian Goulding is now talking about the investigation. He says all 12 victims have been provisionally identified but only four formally identified. He says he understands the frustration at the time taken to identify victims but families come first. Mackey said the victims would be identified over the course of the next few days.He says:It may just not be possible to establish all the answers because we cannot speak to Derrick BirdGoulding says the police are aware of "rumours" about finance and domestic problems as motivation for Goulding's behaviour and they are being followed up but he "will not be speculating".Bird was not on any medication, he says.4.19pm: Goulding has stopped speaking now. He said Bird had a previous conviction dating back to 1990 for theft.Police are investigating whether Bird was motivated by a grudge or whether it was a random killing. Goulding said his initial thoughts are that it is a combination of both.Medical records appear to show Bird had no history of mental health problems and was not on any medication, said Gould.4.34pm: A former schoolmate of Bird said she met him near the home of solicitor Kevin Commons, believed to be his second victim, before 6am yesterday.Shop worker Iris Carruthers, 49, said she recognised Bird, who was in his taxi, and said hello, but he did not reply.She said: "I was just out walking my dogs about 5.30/5.45am and Derrick was coming from the farm in his taxi. He passed me and went down to the bottom of the main road, turned, and he came back up. Slowly he drove alongside me and I said 'hiya lad, you all right?' He didn't speak, he was in a world of his own, and I just kept on walking. He was stationed at the gate on the way up to the tip road. I just left him there. I thought he was just normal, I didn't think there was anything untoward. I just thought he had been to the farm and dropped somebody off because he was in his taxi. I never thought any more of it." 5.09pm: The family of Derrick Bird's twin brother, believed to be his first victim, has released a statement denying that he was motivated by any kind of fall out with his family, according to a Channel 4 News tweet:David Bird's family issue statement denying family rift: "We would like to take this opportunity to say there was absolutely no family feud."5.18pm: These are the details of the four victims of Derrick Bird whose identities were confirmed by police this afternoon:- Kevin Joseph Commons, a local solicitor. Commons was a senior partner in law firm KJ.Commons and Co, and was found dead in the driveway of his house on Frizington Road, Frizington, yesterday afternoon.- Mother of two, Susan Hughes, 57, of Park View, Castle Croft, Egremont, died on Haggard End, Orgill, in Egremont.- Jane Elizabeth Robinson, 66, of Drigg Road, Seascale whose body was found on Drigg Road a few hundred yards from her home.- Father of three daughters, David Bird (twin brother of Derrick Bird), 52, was found dead at his house on High Trees Farm, Lamplugh.5.36pm: Adrian Whiting, assistant chief constable for Dorset police, who works on firearms issues for the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) was just quizzed on BBC News about why Derrick Bird managed to get a firearms licence, given that he had a criminal conviction for theft (see 4.19pm).Whiting said the law is clear that those sentenced to more than three years in jail are prohibited from obtaining a firearms certificiate for life, while those sentenced to between three months and three years cannot obtain a licence for five years.When considering whether to grant a licence considerations would be "the nature of the conviction, what it involved, any violence, how long ago it was," said Whiting.He added it was not "unusual" for someone with a conviction to obtain a licence "where a conviction was some time ago, doesn't involve any violence".5.45pm: Here is more of the statement released by David Bird's daughters. Rachel, 28, Tracey, 26, and Katie, 19, rejected the idea that the family was at odds over a will, a theory that has been advanced to explain their uncle's behaviour:We are utterly devastated about the death of our dad. He was the nicest man you could ever meet. He was a loving husband and doting Dad and Granda. We would like to take this opportunity to say there was absolutely no family feud. Our Dad's only downfall was to try and help his brother. Dad was a loving and cheerful character and was well known throughout the village. He will not only be missed by us, but by the whole community. Love you forever. Sleep well. xxxThey also sent their condolences to "all the other families and people involved in this tragic incident".6.17pm: Police have just formally identified a fifth victim.Jamie Michael Dennis Clark (pictured below), 23, of St Pierre Avenue, Carlisle, formerly of Northall in Buckinghamshire, whose body was found in his car on the A5083.A tribute from his parents, Richard and Jane Clark, reads: "Our darling son, Jamie, has been taken from us. Our lives will never be the same again. He was the most wonderful gentle, loving, considerate man. Much loved by us his parents, his brother and his fiance and all his friends." Jamie's fiance, Lianne Jarman, 21, of Carlisle, said: "He was not just my fiancee, but my closest friend. He is my life, my world, my everything. Taken too soon, he gave so many people love and joy. He touched so many lives, but he did not realise how cherished he was. We are all truly devastated."For the final post of the day I'm leaving you with a summary:• The home secretary, Theresa May, has promised a review of Britain's gun laws following yesterday's shootings in Cumbria. She said it would be wrong to act before the full facts about Derrick Bird's killing spree were known, but said a debate of firearms laws was "right and proper".• David Cameron warned against "knee-jerk" legislative action following the shootings. He and May will visit the area of the killings tomorrow.• The home secretary revealed in a statement to the House of Commons that Derrick Bird was licenced to use both weapons. Bird had had a licence for a shotgun since 1995 and a licence for a rifle since 2007.• All 12 victims of yesterday's shootings have been named locally and police said they have identified them provisionally. Police have formally identified five of the dead, Kevin Commons, 60, Susan Hughes, 57, Jane Elizabeth Robinson, 66, David Bird 52 and Jamie Clark, 23. But they said it may be days before all 12 are formally identified.• Head of Cumbria CID Ian Goulding said police were trying to establish the motive for yesterday's events but with Bird dead "it may just not be possible to establish all the answers".Good night.