Ministers are to press ahead with plans for "breakfast courts" in an attempt to rescue an initiative to tackle yob culture trumpeted by Tony Blair during the 2001 general election campaign.The official results of three pilot schemes published yesterday confirm that Mr Blair's preferred option for a network of night courts to dispense immediate punishment to teenage hooligans proved "prohibitively expensive and not cost-effective". Ministers have decided to abandon that idea but will instead press ahead with early morning courts of adult cases, with the first already under way at Trafford magistrates. "The findings indicated that early morning sittings did assist the handling of cases and the earlier hearings of overnight remand cases had a beneficial effect on those cases already listed for hearing that day," said courts minister, Yvette Cooper. "There was less demand for the late night trials option where the relatively low volume of cases led to disproportionate additional costs." The evaluation report by PA Consulting said in the night court trial held at Bow Street magistrates in central London, the extra cost of overtime for staff and the transport and custody of prisoners had amount ed to an average £3,257 a case. In Manchester the cost of the evening trials was put at £1,332 a case. The report said London had been more expensive because there were not enough cases to keep the court busy. In contrast the cost of the pilot scheme for early morning sittings in Manchester, where the sessions started at 9am was only £589 a case. At Bow Street magistrates dealt with 368 defendants during the four-month trial, during which the court sat from 6pm to midnight on Friday and Saturdays. The main crimes dealt with were theft, begging, drunk and disorderly and possessing drugs. In Manchester the night court, which sat until 8pm on Tuesday and Thursday, heard 88 cases, mostly for motoring offences. The early morning court in Manchester dealt with 534 cases, mostly the first appearances of adults who had been arrested and held in police cells overnight. The Lord Chancellor's Department, which sanctioned the pilot schemes, admitted yesterday that one reason why the night courts were being abandoned was because the existing capacity of the courts was more than adequate to handle the majority of cases during normal hours. The night courts idea came from New York after a visit to the city by the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens.