A British cyclist rode his treasured bike for 10,000 miles across Europe and Asia only to have it stolen after locking it to a rack outside a restaurant in his home town.Sam Swain, 22, said he had travelled through countries, such as Iran and China, that were supposed to be hazardous and had met more than a few "unsavoury" characters. But he had not felt that he or his Dawes Super Galaxy touring bicycle were ever at risk.Now he feels angry and disillusioned after the bike was taken as he worked at a Bristol restaurant to save up for his next trip.Swain, who travelled with his father, Mark, said: "We went to all of these countries that are supposed to be really dangerous and met all kinds of unsavoury characters but everyone was so hospitable compared to how they are in this country."I think people in the UK are simply out for themselves, they don't care if what they do affects others. It left such a sour feeling about how people in this country are. We were in places like Iran where people are really struggling and they were so much more united."When we were travelling we used locks but in some places it was so remote you could only attach the bikes to each other. No one ever tried to steal our bikes."The pair began their 10-month journey on the west coast of Ireland. They cycled through Europe and made it to Tehran in Iran. Officials there refused to grant them visas to carry on so they got on a plane to India and cycled across the subcontinent. They also travelled through Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam and China before finishing their journey in Tokyo.Father and son arrived back in the UK last year. Swain was working at an Italian restaurant in Bristol city centre to save for another trip to Poland, which was due to start next month, when the thief struck."We had no problems throughout the trip. We come back to England and my bike gets stolen," said Swain. CCTV footage captured a boy of around 13 riding off on the bicycle on 1 June. A woman who was apparently with the youngster left the scene on foot. Swain said he thought there was little chance of getting his bicycle back.An Avon and Somerset police spokesman said they took the theft of bikes seriously. "We would encourage anyone who knows people who steal or handle stolen bikes to get in touch with us," he said.Swain, who has written a book about the trip with his father, said the bike had great sentimental value. "I used that bike to go around the world and have had so many memories on it. You simply cannot get that back by buying another one."