Can a man who says he was unfairly convicted of murder be prevented from forwarding secret evidence to the European court of human rights? Would disclosure to the Strasbourg court damage the UK’s national security? These are some of the questions that the UK supreme court will consider at a keenly awaited hearing in the autumn.Wang Yam given 20 years in prison for killing reclusive writer Allan Chappelow The appeal is being brought by Wang Yam, a Chinese dissident who was convicted in 2009 of murdering the reclusive author Allan Chappelow, 86, at his home in Hampstead, north London. Yam was sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 20 years. Mr Justice Ouseley, the trial judge, had made an order in 2008 “under the court’s inherent jurisdiction” excluding the press and public from part of the hearing. He said that the order was made “in the interests of national security and for the protection of the identity of a witness or other person”.Ouseley’s order was upheld a few days later by the court of appeal. At Yam’s subsequent unsuccessful appeal against conviction, the court reminded media organisations that speculating on what may have been said while the trial was closed to press and public might be punishable as contempt. Despite that, as the Guardian noted last year, there was some media speculation. One author wrote: “Very unusually, a large part of his trial was held in camera, because apparently Wang Yam had some link with the security services, which he wished to rely on by way of defence.” That comment escaped censure because its author was Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, one of the appeal judges who upheld Ouseley’s initial ruling.In 2011, Yam lodged an application at the human rights court in Strasbourg, claiming that his right to a fair trial under article 6 of the human rights convention had been breached by the judge’s decision to exclude reporting of the defence case. After the government had been asked to respond, the then foreign secretary, William Hague, issued a public interest immunity certificate in December 2013 in which he said that “there would be a real risk of serious harm to an important public interest” if Yam were allowed to disclose the evidence heard in private. In challenging that, Yam was not asking the government to disclose anything new: the sensitive material was evidence he himself had given or heard in court.In February last year, Ouseley dismissed Yam’s attempt to overturn the judge’s earlier order. There were “very good reasons” for the court to stand in the way of what Yam wanted to tell Strasbourg, he said. Ouseley’s ruling was upheld by the high court, which dismissed Yam’s application for judicial review last October. But earlier this year three supreme court judges headed by the court’s president, Lord Neuberger, granted Yam permission to appeal. Neuberger will preside over a one-day hearing on 2 November. Seven justices of the supreme court will sit instead of the usual five, a sign that the court may be considering a change in the law.The supreme court is not being asked to consider how damaging it would be to the UK’s national interests if sensitive material from Yam’s trial became widely known. Instead, it is expected to concentrate on what powers the courts may have to stop Yam putting his case to Strasbourg. That’s far from clear. By contrast, the UK is under an international obligation to assist applicants. When the government ratified article 34 of the human rights convention, it agreed “not to hinder the effective exercise” of an individual’s right to complain to the court. By article 38 it agreed to “furnish all necessary facilities” for a court investigation. Ah, but the government will say, these are mere treaty obligations, unenforceable in the UK courts. Even so, Yam is likely to argue, they should be followed in the absence of clear legislation to the contrary.Chinese dissident fails in effort to get murder case heard at European court When the high court dismissed Yam’s challenge last October, it pointed out that the Strasbourg court would be well aware that evidence was being withheld from it – even if did not know what the evidence ​was. It should be for the human rights judges themselves to decide whether this put the British government in breach of the convention, the high court thought. And if the government chose to put what it saw as the national interest ahead of its obligations under the convention then it would simply have to take the consequences. Such standoffs were not matters for the UK courts.But that is not the issue. The question for the supreme court judges is whether they can stop Yam from giving the Strasbourg court the information he has that it has asked to see. A total ban would surely be disproportionate. The sensitive evidence has already been heard by two juries (there was a retrial) as well as by lawyers, UK judges and officials. And the Strasbourg court has promised it would keep it confidential. Its judgments never leak.What all this comes down to is the principle of comity among courts. On the assumption that evidence heard more than seven years ago is damaging to national security, can we trust judges and officials from other European countries not to disclose it? Sure, we can’t punish them for contempt of court if they do. But is that a real risk? Much better, surely, to allow an independent court to have all the relevant evidence and decide whether Yam’s trial was fair.Even if he wins, Strasbourg has no power to overturn Yam’s conviction. But parliament would have to look again at how we balance the right to a fair trial against the need to protect national security. And as we heard when the Erol Incedal media challenge opened in June, on this the law is far from clear.