Three teenagers who murdered a family man in a gang attack fuelled by cheap alcohol and skunk cannabis were jailed for life yesterday. Garry Newlove, 47, died outside his home in a suburb of Warrington, Cheshire, in August last year after he went to remonstrate with youths who had damaged his wife's car and a neighbour's digger.Newlove was repeatedly kicked and punched by the youths and died in hospital two days later without regaining consciousness. His three daughters, Amy, then 12, Danielle, 14, and Zoe, 18, saw the horrific assault. His wife, Helen, saw part of the attack and cradled him as they waited for an ambulance.At Chester crown court yesterday, Mr Justice Smith sentenced Adam Swellings, 19, of Crewe, Cheshire, to a minimum of 17 years before he is eligible for parole. Stephen Sorton, 17, from Warrington, was given a minimum term of 15 years and Jordan Cunliffe, 16, formerly of Warrington, was given 12 years minimum. The three were convicted of murder last month.Swellings, who had convictions for assault, was described by the judge as having "lit the blue touchpaper" for the fatal assault. He had been released from custody on the day of the attack for pursuing and hitting a 16-year-old girl. As part of his bail conditions, he was not supposed to enter Warrington.The detective in charge of the murder investigation, Detective Inspector Geoff Elvey, said none of the three had shown any remorse. "It's about parents taking control of their children," he said. "I don't believe any of the defendants have shown any remorse, but they will have time to reflect upon their actions. We all have a role as parents in the community to engage with our children and educate them about this type of conduct." A week before the attack, Garry Newlove had helped a complete stranger who was having trouble with a gang of youths. "That was the public-spirited kind of man he was," Mr Justice Smith said.He was "a courageous and devoted family man who paid with his life," the judge said, telling the three: "You three were only so brave because you outnumbered him many times over and it was fuelled by skunk cannabis and cheap drink."The judge said even the youngest of the gang had no difficulty in getting hold of cheap, extra-strength alcohol from shops. The attack had not come out of the blue, the judge said. "For all of you, drunken aggression is part of a night's entertainment."He said the attack had been witnessed by Garry Newlove's three daughters, who did all they could to help their father. "It was a gang attack and each of you continued to behave aggressively after you had finished with Garry Newlove. Importantly, his teenage daughters watched as he was attacked and fatally injured. I must consider the effect on them of such a horrific experience at a young age."Nobody who saw them during the trial can forget their simple and straightforward decency. "Everyone in court could understand why Garry Newlove was so proud of his family. I hope that provides a crumb of comfort to Mrs Newlove. But that was the family you destroyed."The judge said the gang's appetite for aggression was not sated by the attack on Newlove. They then confronted his eldest daughter and her then boyfriend, who was hit in the face. Chilling pictures of sadism and violence were later discovered on mobile phones belonging to Sorton and Swellings. The images were saved and will be given to the parole board when the time comes to consider their eligibility for release.Sorton's barrister, Richard Marks, said witnesses had exaggerated the ferocity of the attack.Cunliffe's barrister, Ray Wigglesworth, said he was shocked and bewildered by his conviction and wished to apologise to the court and to the Newlove family for his actions.Newlove's widow, Helen, wept and gasped as the sentences were handed down and was comforted by her sister. In her victim impact statement, she said: "Most days I struggle to get out of bed but I have to because I have to put on a brave face for our daughters. Every day is a challenge because I'm always coming across things that Garry and I did together. Each day is extremely difficult without him."She said: "Garry was a wonderful and caring husband and father who doted on his family. It is so cruel that he ended up dying for his family because he was trying to protect us. Garry was so brave, having survived cancer and never complaining."Her daughter Zoe told the BBC: "They just acted as a pack - it was horrible. I think if some of them hadn't drunk as much, they would have stepped back and thought, 'Hang on a minute, what are you doing?' But Swellings, he's just evil, anyway. "People like him should never be given bail because they could go and out do exactly what he did to my dad."