Police were given more time yesterday to question two brothers of primary school age over a vicious assault in which two other young boys were beaten, slashed and burned before their mobile phones and trainers were stolen.As South Yorkshire police officers interviewed the 10- and 11-year-old brothers, mounted police and cycle teams patrolled the former pit village of Edlington, near Doncaster, although detectives are not looking for anyone else in connection with the attack in the semi-wild Martin Wells area, on Saturday afternoon.The prolonged attack in the scrubland, which is close to a derelict railway cutting, is also understood to have involved sexual humiliation, and has left families in the area in a state of shock.The whole of Martin Wells was sealed off by police, who removed several sackfuls of material from the site.The two children being questioned had been in the care of social services, according to local reports. Paul Hart, managing director of Doncaster council, told the Doncaster Free Press yesterday said: "We can confirm that the two boys in custody have recently been placed into foster care." The council has been at the centre of national concern about the quality of its children's services department. In January, Ed Balls, the children's secretary said he had serious concerns about the council's ability to care for vulnerable children. His warning followed the deaths of seven youngsters through abuse or neglect since 2004.The older victim of Saturday's attack, was moved to a high dependency ward in Sheffield Children's hospital yesterday, after he was taken off a ventilator in the intensive care unit. The other victim, the nephew of the older one, underwent a second operation at Doncaster Royal Infirmary after a deep knife cut in one of his arms.Both boys are well-known on the estate of former colliery houses, where the younger one was found in the street covered in blood, trying get home in a daze and telling rescuers: "My uncle can't see and I can't find him."The older boy, whose mother died from cancer eight years ago, lives a street away from the younger one, whose parents were at his bedside in the infirmary ­yesterday. The two children were described by neighbours yesterday as "normal lads, keen on football and often playing out together".Paula Anderson, a nursery nurse with a six-year-old son, said: "I know the younger boy and he's a really nice lad. He'd never get up to any trouble, but I expect he'd go along with anyone who was suggesting an adventure. It's hard to believe what's happened."One of her neighbours, Nadia Jennings, said: "I can't overstate how shocked ­everyone is in this street. Kids are always going to play down there [in the scrubland] and there's nearly always parents there as well." The attack took place away from the main part of an unofficial park created on the former site of a clay quarry and adjacent brickworks which serviced the Yorkshire Main colliery until the pit closed after the 1984/5 strike."It's a genuinely beautiful place," said Georgina Mullis, one of the three ­councillors for the Doncaster council ward of Edlington and the village of Warmsworth, which lies alongside the A1M motorway. "We're trying to get it turned into a country park at the moment.The area was saved from housing development some years ago after a local residents' campaign. The quarries have been grassed over and trees planted, and a stream called the Hoe Beck has flooded one of them to make a two acre lake.The older of the victims was discovered half-naked and semi-conscious after neighbours comforting his nephew alerted police. Officers found him in a part of the site where the former track of a light railway forms a man-made ravine.The attack was condemned as "shocking" by Gordon Brown, but a statement from Downing Street added: "In his view, the overwhelming majority [of young people] are well-behaved and have good upbringings, and therefore he would be cautious about reaching any general conclusion about what is a disturbing but singular event."The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said: "This is clearly a very serious and tragic case and my thoughts go out to these two young victims and their families. I have received a briefing from South Yorkshire police and I know that they are doing all they can to get justice for these two boys and their families."