Many will feel irritation at the return of the Stephen Lawrence case to the policing agenda. They would have preferred that the incompetent and institutionally racist investigation into this tragic death should now be placed in the dustbin of history, as a sad episode that couldn't be repeated again.There is no doubt that the police service has benefited from the recommendations of the Macpherson inquiry into Lawrence's death, and that it has gone a long way towards improving its investigations. However, Lawrence's parents are no further forward in knowing why the investigation was bungled and why the prosecution failed. Soundbites from the inquiry report such as "systemic failures" and "poor leadership" fail to explain why evidence was not collected; and investigative opportunities not explored. Was there corrupt activity among the investigators that was operating beneath the radar of those in charge? Why was it not detected? If it was, why was it not addressed and disclosed to the inquiry?Whether retired Detective Sergeant John Davidson interfered with the investigation and obstructed the course of justice, as alleged in last night's BBC documentary, also needs to be answered. At face value the whistleblower, Detective Constable Neil Putnam, has very little motive to lie about Davidson and his assertions must be taken seriously. Although himself once jailed for corruption, Putnam's evidence was relied on by the Metropolitan police to convict others. There is also little incentive for him to suggest that the Met knew about Davidson's corrupt activities but chose not to investigate further. It appeared that he struck up a good relationship with anti-corruption officers after his conviction and had a positive relationship with the Met.At the time of the Lawrence inquiry, the Met was under severe scrutiny and its legitimacy was being questioned. It is conceivable that some officers may have been tempted to try to protect the organisation from allegations that went beyond incompetence and institutionalised racism.But if Met decision-makers at the time chose to minimise the collateral damage of the corruption allegation, it would have been a serious error of judgment, which will have untold consequences for the force. It is ironic that it was about this time that the then Met commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, gave evidence to the home affairs select committee about his crusade to rid the organisation of corrupt officers. Yet Davidson was able to allegedly sabotage a murder investigation that held such importance for the force.On the other hand, the allegation of a cover-up seems unlikely since there were a number of competent and highly ethical officers brought in to ensure that the inquiry findings were implemented and robustly adhered to. The then home secretary, Jack Straw, personally chaired a Lawrence steering group and ensured that all stakeholders delivered. The ministerial commitment, and the energy of those tasked to implement the findings, were genuine and admirable. If all that positive activity and goodwill was taking place under a quiet stench of corruption that was not disclosed to the inquiry and the relevant stakeholders, then many people would feel badly let down.The Independent Police Complaints Commission should not only launch a thorough investigation into Putnam's allegations, but also consider whether the inquiry and its recommendations were undermined by not fully investigating the charges. This new inquiry is important to Lawrence's family and friends, the public, and all who gave their time and energy to bring a positive outcome from a tragic incident.· Dr Ali Dizaei is a chief superintendent in the Metropolitan police, and legal adviser to the National Black Police Association.