 Detectives are investigating whether an elderly woman who was stabbed to death at an isolated riverside cottage was caught up in a bungled burglary.The body of the 77-year-old woman was found by police at her home near Bewdley in Worcestershire after a friend dialled 999 because she could not contact her. She was named by police as retired teacher Betty Yates.A knife has been recovered and was undergoing forensic examination as officers continued to comb the house and the area around it on Friday.Detective Chief Inspector Neil Jamieson, who is leading the investigation, said: "Our thoughts are with the victim's family at this sad time for them."The lady who died was subjected to a violent attack and we are determined to catch the person or people responsible."I would urge anyone who has any information at all that could help our investigation to come forward without delay. The cottage is in a secluded spot near the riverside and in an area popular with anglers and walkers. If you were near there between lunchtime on Monday and around 9am on Wednesday, then please get in touch. We also need to know if you saw anyone else there or anything suspicious, including any vehicles in unusual circumstances."Friends and neighbours paid tribute to Yates, a founder member of the Wyre Forest branch of the University of the Third Age, the learning organisation for older people. She ran the group's book club and its walking committee.Chairman David Struckett said: "She was a highly respected and appreciated member of the community. She was welcoming and dedicated to her role in the organisation."A neighbour and friend, Lynne Marshall, said: "Betty was very active. She was married to Raymond but he died some years ago. I know that friends had tried to urge her to move closer into the community because she was so isolated where she lives but she always refused. She said her memories of her time with Ray were in the house and she didn't want to lose that."Betty still drove her car and went to art classes, she was very fit and feisty and I would say she probably put up a good fight. We are all so shocked and saddened by her murder."Another neighbour said: "She was a lovely woman and would do anything for anybody. When my in-laws were ill she would go and visit them in hospital. She really was a kind, gentle and and generous lady. Betty was very active for her age and involved in the church a lot."We have known her for a long time and I'm devastated she has gone. This is an idyllic area and to hear about this is very unnerving. Everybody is in complete shock and worried that there is a murderer on the loose in Bewdley."Town councillor Carol Gittens said: "This is small town and it only happened down the road from where I live, so it's a matter of keeping your doors locked."Yates had celebrated her 77th birthday on 28 December and is survived by a son and a daughter, who do not live locally.A major incident room has been set up at Stourport police station to investigate the death, with more than 40 police staff working on the case.