Local authorities are urged today to provide more sports activities to keep bored youngsters away from antisocial behaviour.A report published by youth charity the Prince's Trust argued that socially excluded young people from disadvantaged communities are often the victims of a "no ball games" culture, and lack activities to keep them entertained and away from antisocial behaviour.Based on interviews with more than 1,000 adults, the report said 92% felt that local authorities should provide more diversionary activities for young people.Eighty-seven per cent said sport is a good way of keeping young people out of trouble. The findings support a Prince's Trust report published earlier this year, which revealed that 47% of disadvantaged young people believe there are not enough activities for youngsters in their community.More than half of all adults consider the most positive benefit to young people involved with sport is building confidence as part of a team. The findings also reveal that 46% of adults believe that more young people would get into education, employment and training if personal development courses were linked to professional sports clubs. Leslie Morphy, director of programmes and policy at The Prince's Trust, said: "With more than one million young people not in education, employment and training, we need to find new ways of engaging this group. Sport has a special ability to inspire and motivate young people from different backgrounds, create strong social networks and increase community cohesion. "It also helps us tackle antisocial behaviour, isolation and boredom by providing diversionary activities for young people most at risk. We need to continue to create links with sport to help more young people overcome their barriers and get their lives back on track." A spokesman for the trust added: "This isn't an attack on local authorities, but we recognise that they are a powerful force for change on top of things that we are doing."The Prince's Trust is developing partnerships with a number of sporting organisations including the FA Premier League, Zurich Premiership Rugby and NatWest Cricket to tackle these issues. These initiatives operate around the country helping young people gain nationally recognised qualifications and develop skills.A spokeswoman for the Local Government Association said: "This is a perceptions-based report. There is actually a great deal of work already being done by local authorities around this area."Publication of the report came as the Conservative Party leader Michael Howard was due to visit London's Leicester Square to hear about Westminster city council's efforts to tackle yobbish behaviour and binge drinking.