People who let off fireworks late at night and teenagers who carry them in public places will face fines of up to £5,000 or six months in jail under a new initiative to combat antisocial behaviour that comes into force at the weekend.There will be a complete ban on letting off fireworks between 11pm and 7am, and under-18s will be committing an offence if they carry them in public. Shops will also be banned from selling fireworks louder than 120 decibels. Exceptions have been made for special occasions, with revellers celebrating the new year, Diwali and the Chinese new year given until 1am to let off fireworks; November 5 bonfire displays, however, must be over by midnight. Gerry Sutcliffe, the consumer minister, said: "Fireworks can be fun but can also cause misery for communities, especially for vulnerable people, such as the elderly, and animals. "Introducing a curfew and a noise limit balances the law to ensure that people can still enjoy fireworks while cracking down on their antisocial use." Shops wanting to sell fireworks all year round will need to apply for a licence from their local council; other suppliers, such as newsagents, will be able to sell them only during limit periods. The number of people in the UK injured by fireworks in 2003 was up slightly on the previous year, with 1,136 people treated in hospital casualty departments compared with 1,017 in 2002. But the injury statistics from the department of trade and industry also revealed that the majority of accidents were minor, with only 5% of people needing to stay in hospital overnight. The DTI welcomed the new legislation as a good step forward in cutting down on the "nuisance" use of fireworks but added that the illegal trade in fireworks to underage youngsters was an area that still needed to be monitored. The Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals sad the measures did not go far enough.In a submission to the government, the RSPCA called for a lower, 95-decibel limit and for official firework display organisers to be forced to notify local pet owners.Steve Cheetham, the RSPCA's chief veterinary officer, said: "This legislation does nothing to alleviate the suffering of animals, and the government has missed a great opportunity to do something about it. "Its failure to sufficiently reduce the noise level of fireworks means thousands of animals will continue to suffer. "We have received a huge amount of support for our campaign for quieter fireworks and there will be many disappointed pet owners up and down the country."