The proposal to repeal laws criminalising gay sex by consenting adults in private rests on the belief that the law's view of homosexuality as "unnatural" legitimises prejudice and contributes to homophobia."The criminal law should not treat people differently on the basis of their sexual orientation. It should offer protection from all non-consensual sexual activity. Consensual sexual activity between adults in private that causes no harm should not be criminal," concludes the official review chaired by a Home Office civil servant, Betty Moxon. The review report published yesterday, Setting the Boundaries, recommended sweeping away the offences of gross indecency, buggery and soliciting by men which is sometimes called "cottaging" or "cruising". At present the offence of gross indecency makes it illegal for homosexual acts to take place where there are more than two people taking part or are present and in a public lavatory. Ministers believe it is this recommendation which will prove politically the most difficult, as it will legalise group gay sex in private as it is a victimless crime. It will remain an offence to engage in gay sex in a public toilet, but instances will be prosecuted under a general public order offence involving inappropriate sexual behaviour in public rather than a specific anti-gay crime. The review said the offence of buggery was fundamentally flawed, as it equated anal intercourse with bestiality and was an unpleasant and offensive term. Separate provision is to be made for the protection of children and animals. It also said that the law that had been used to prosecute thousands of men for cottaging or cruising should be scrapped. The most commonly used offences against men who seek sexual partners in or around toilets are importuning and gross indecency. The report said that similar behaviour, if between men and women, would be seen as no more than "chatting up" and such approaches to women were not criminal. Instead it proposed if cottaging happened on such a scale to cause distress to local residents, it should be dealt with under laws for street prostitution. The report made clear, for example, that two men or two women should be able to hold hands or kiss in public. The review proposed a much tougher line on "flashers" and "peeping toms". The offence of indecent exposure should be reformed, it said, to one where a man exposes himself knowing he might cause alarm or distress, and the penalties be doubled to six months for a first offence. A new offence of voyeurism would criminalise those who installed cameras in public changing areas, and protect anybody spied on inside a building who had an expectation of privacy. Alan TravisChild abuse and rapeAbuse or exploitation of children and other vulnerable people is at the heart of a review of the gamut of sex offences unveiled by ministers. But the independent review's recommendations for the crime of rape will disappoint women's groups who wanted changes to increase the 9% conviction rate for reported cases. There are to be new offences covering the commercial sexual exploitation of children up to 18, including using child prostitutes or making child pornography. The maximum would be life imprisonment where the child was under 13, and 10 years for children between 13 and 18; using a prostitute aged 16 to 18 would carry a five year sentence. Adults using the internet to incite children to have sex would also be covered. A new offence of trafficking, transporting someonefor the purpose of selling sexual services, would attract a maximum of 14 years. Abusers could face a new charge of persistent sexual abuse of a child, allowing courts to assume a course of conduct from a small number of specimen charges, and carrying a maximum of 14 years in prison to reflect the long-term nature of the abuse. The ancient crime of incest would be replaced by an offence of familial sexual abuse, reflecting "the looser structure of modern families". Adoptive parents will be treated the same as natural parents, and sex between adoptive siblings will be illegal until age 18. Step-parents and foster parents will also be covered by the new offence, and if the relationship ends the ban will stay until the child is 18. Any per son living in the household who holds a position of trust or authority over the child will also be banned from sex with a child under 18. The review's steering group, made up of civil servants, lawyers and victims' groups, was "deeply saddened" by what they heard about abuse of people with disabilities. The chairman, Betty Moxon, said the law at present was designed to stop vulnerable people having sex; a more modern law would strike a balance allowing those capable of consenting to have a private life, while protecting vulnerable people from exploitative sex. The group recommended the offence of "sexual intercourse with a defective", with a maximum of two years, be replaced by "sexual activity with a person with severe mental incapacity", punishable by life imprisonment. The proposals on rape will not affect the burden of proof or the presumption of inno cence. It would still be for the prosecution to prove that the woman did not consent to sex, if the defendant said she did. The review rejected two proposals strongly urged on them: creation of a separate, lesser offence of date rape to improve conviction statistics; and, more controversially, preventing an acquittal if the jury accepted a man honestly believed, however unreasonably, the woman had consented. Women's groups and some academics wanted the man to have to prove his belief was reasonable. The review team recommended that, as in Canada, a man should not be able to rely on an "honest but mistaken" belief of consent if he was reckless, drunk or did not take all reasonable steps to make sure she freely agreed. The offence of rape will change to include oral penetration as well as vaginal and anal penetration. Clare Dyer Main points  • Scrap offences of buggery, gross indecency and soliciting by men • New public order offence of sexual behaviour in a public place • New offence of voyeurism • New crime of persistent child abuse • Incest replaced by sex abuse in the family to cover adoptive and step-parents • Definition of rape extended to forced oral sex • New crime: sexual touching • Seven years' jail instead of two for many offences