Three drug smugglers have been jailed for at least 18 years each for transporting as much as £1.6bn worth of cocaine and heroin into the UK using a fleet of fake ambulances.Olof Schoon, described in court as the “central player” in the scheme, was jailed for 24 years after he pleaded guilty to smuggling class A drugs. Schoon, a 38-year-old married father of three, would have faced a longer term had he not admitted his part in the operation. His right-hand man, Leonardus Bijlsma, 55, was jailed for 28 years after being convicted by a jury. A third man, Richard Engelsbel, 51, was given an 18-year jail term after admitting that he acted as a driver or driver’s assistant on 25 smuggling trips purporting to be journeys to pick up injured patients.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Drugs gang (left-right) Leonardus Bijlsma, Olof Schoon and Richard Engelsbel. Photograph: National Crime Agency/PABirmingham crown court heard the three men smuggled “truly colossal” quantities of drugs into the UK via Harwich and Hull in a fleet of specially adapted fake ambulances. The drugs were delivered to dealers in Yorkshire, Merseyside, London and the West Midlands.Members of the gang wore bogus paramedic uniforms and even carried fake patients to make their cover more authentic. The National Crime Agency (NCA) established that the gang trafficked drugs, packaged in colour-coded parcels and hidden behind false panels in the ambulances, from the Netherlands to the UK.They would park in car parks or industrial units, where members of UK criminal gangs would meet them and pick up consignments that they would then sell.Sources within the NCA said they believed 20 different gangs around the UK relied on the ambulance racket for supplies of class A drugs.The three were not regarded as “Mr Bigs” but as important facilitators. The search for others involved in the racket is continuing in the UK and the Netherlands. The jury was told that the smuggling operation may have brought up to £420m worth of “top quality” class A drugs into the UK. When the high-purity drug packets were cut down to individual street-value wraps, the total cash value could increase fourfold, reaching a “staggering” amount, said the prosecutor Robert Davies.He said: “The prosecution suggest this was a top-level, audacious, and – up to the point of interception and the arrests – a successful and lucrative criminal conspiracy.”Davies said the operation was finally broken up when NCA officers swooped on one of the ambulances after tracking it to a scrapyard in Smethwick, in the West Midlands, on 16 June.Inside the back of the ambulance, concealed behind panels in six “hides”, were neatly stacked, colour-coded packets of class A drugs, including cocaine with a street value of more than £30m and heroin worth £8m. Officers also found 60,000 ecstasy tablets.Schoon, who was director of the Schoon Ambulance Company, was described in court as “the central player”. He owned a fleet of ambulances, ostensibly transferring patients to and from the UK. Four were found to have “hides” like the one stopped in Smethwick.The court was told that the company’s records showed the fake ambulance journeys had been “going on over weeks and months”. In all, at least 45 trips were made in 14 months.Bijlsma was described in the court as Schoon’s right-hand man. The prosecution told the jury that a rivet gun was found with Bijlsma’s DNA on it. It said this gun was used to fasten the panels inside the ambulance.The sentences are among the most severe handed to drugs smugglers. They are not the longest, however. Among those given longer terms is Brian Wright, a cocaine smuggler nicknamed the Milkman, who was sentenced to 30 years in 2007.