For months the TV in the corner of Karen Matthews' sitting room in Dewsbury pumped out pictures of an abducted child, Madeleine McCann, coupled with news reports of the ever-increasing reward for her safe discovery.But 10 months ago, the face on the screen suddenly changed to Matthews' own daughter, nine-year-old Shannon, who had gone happily off on a swimming trip from Westmoor primary school on February 19 but did not come home.For 24 days, the hunt for Shannon was a repeat of the agonising search in Portugal. Detectives abandoned murder inquiries to join the team. Hundreds of neighbours took part and the bill for the West Yorkshire police authority topped £3,200,000.Then, to the astonishment of even the hardened murder specialist heading the inquiry, the woman at the heart of the hunt turned out to be the kidnap's organiser. Harassed from bringing up four children from different fathers, often skint, and unhappy with her latest partner who was secretly accessing internet child porn, 32-year-old Matthews made her own daughter the centre of an extortion plot."Get Karen down here!" yelled her co-conspirator Michael Donovan, 40, as police dragged him none too gently from his flat in Batley Carr, a mile and a half from Shannon's home. They had found the drugged girl hidden with him under a bed. "We'd got a plan. We're sharing the money – £50,000," shouted Donovan.In Leeds, the mobile beeped for Andy Brennan, the detective superintendent heading the search, who was explaining the lack of progress so far to restless members of the police authority. "We've found Shannon," was the message from Detective Constable Paul Kettlewell, one of five officers who broke down Donovan's door after he refused to answer when neighbours said that he was definitely inside."Where's the body?" asked Brennan, a veteran of more than 20 murder inquiries who had long since organised measures to recover the child's remains from anywhere in Britain. "No, we've found her alive and we're on the way to the station," said Kettlewell."It stopped me in my tracks," recalls Brennan. "I had to get straight over to Dewsbury to see her physically to reassure myself."He walked into a room where Shannon was playing with some toys. The schoolgirl smiled and said "Hello." Brennan says: "I smiled back and said 'Hello' myself. That was all that needed to be said. We'd rescued a kidnapped nine-year-old child and police work doesn't get any better than that."Believing it still took time for Brennan, as it did over the last four weeks for the jury of seven men and five women who heard the evidence at Leeds crown court. During questioning, Matthews and Donovan came up with six contradictory explanations. They were branded respectively as a "consummate liar" and a "pathetic inadequate" by QCs in court."Basically we've had two prolific liars who are giving wildly different views. Which one do you believe?" says Brennan. "But in the end they've either got to knock down our evidence or blame one another. Blaming is what they did."Donovan's wild cries to "get Karen down here" as he was bundled into a police van – by officers who had found a restraining leash in his flat and a set of kidnap "rules" to keep Shannon quiet – were soon borne out by events that culminated in Matthews' arrest.Shannon was quickly offered the chance to see her mother after her rescue but turned it down. For her part, Matthews told the officer who broke the good news to her: "I like the ringtone on your mobile," and then went out shopping.More substantial bits of the puzzle fell into place. The mother of Craig Meehan, Matthews' partner, was overheard on the phone telling someone, thought to be Matthews, to keep quiet.Matthews herself was arrested after breaking down during a car trip with a police support officer. She babbled that she had asked Donovan, who is Craig Meehan's uncle, to look after Shannon as part of a plot to get away from Meehan, but "everything went wrong".In court, the prosecuting counsel, Julian Goose QC, made effective use of film clips of Matthews' tearful TV appeals, which he contrasted with evidence from neighbours and police liaison officers of her nonchalance when the media were not watching. In the middle of more than three hours of evidence punctuated by sobs, Matthews was read details of how she laughed and joked with Craig Meehan immediately afterwards. It was, said Goose, a cruel charade.Donovan's defence barrister, Alan Conrad QC, was equally scathing, urging the jury to draw the obvious lesson from Matthews' style in both the witness box and during the long search for her daughter. The court was shown a TV appeal where Matthews begged: "If anyone has got my daughter, my beautiful princess daughter, let her come home."When the footage ended, Conrad attacked. "Just as it was a staged performance during the three and a half weeks your daughter was missing. You can play for the cameras and play for the court, can't you?" Matthews responded with more tears.There were weaknesses in the prosecution case: no forensic evidence to link Matthews to Shannon's flat prison, and doubts that Donovan – described as "soft-headed" and "a weirdo" by neighbours – had the gumption to carry out a kidnap. But the child had been crudely drugged with travel pills. And, damningly, she had clearly been dosed with Temazapan for many months previously.Then there were the precedents for the reward. Donovan spoke of planning to release Shannon and then "find" her in Dewsbury market. A copy of the Sun with the money edging up to £50,000 was found carefully folded in his flat, unlike a Daily Mirror, which was scrunched in the bin."I believe that they were going to hold out until they got to £50,000," says Brennan. "And though there's no direct evidence that this case mirrored the McCann one, you can see the possibility."Madeleine was still fresh in everyone's minds. A young, pretty girl was being looked for in Portugal, and Shannon was a photogenic girl missing here in Dewsbury. You can see why two and two has been put together."The inquiry may have further to go, and more defendants may end up in the dock of Leeds crown court. Donovan evaded the police search for three weeks because of his web of aliases.It was a more distant, extended family member who alerted the inquiry team after Donovan rang him to ask if he had been interviewed by detectives. "Yes," he said. "Well don't put them on to me," said Donovan.The man rang the police, who jumped on the tip-off. "We'd just got Donovan on our list at 18th in the tally of suspects, some of whom were family members but the vast majority not," says Brennan. "We'd have called on him in the next few days but after that call, he became Friday's priority." Friday was the March 14, the day Shannon was found.In court, Matthews sprayed allegations at her immediate family, particularly Craig Meehan's relations, suggesting they were the real plotters. She was just the chosen fall-guy, she said, because unlike most of them she had no criminal record and "would get off lightly" if the scam failed.Brennan doesn't hide his scepticism but says: "If any evidence comes to light which suggests that others are involved, we will pursue it. "Others have already been arrested on suspicion of perverting the course. If we discover anything more, we will deal with it, you can be sure."