Members of the public worried about litter, graffiti, vandalism and yobbish behaviour will soon be able to call up their local beat officer direct on their mobile phone as a result of police reforms to be announced this week.The move to publish the numbers of local officers for non-emergency calls is part of a series of root- and branch changes to police practice designed to make them more responsive to the fears of local communities. Despite early concerns about calls from timewasters, forces who have piloted the use of 'beat-copper mobiles' have found them a useful tool in tackling low-level crime. As part of the reforms, officers will be reorganised into highly-localised neighbourhood teams consisting of a sergeant, two constables and three community support officers. The dedicated local teams will be expected to bed themselves into communities to the extent that everyone in the area will know them by name. The initiatives will be included in a white paper on police reform to be published by the Home Office on Tuesday. Pilot schemes of so-called 'Reassurance Policing' across the country have allowed local people to set out the priorities for local police, which typically involve anti-social behaviour, drugs, criminal damage and noise nuisance such as speeding motorbikes. Many of the new measures are based on the work of the former Boston police chief Paul Evans, who now heads the Police Standards Unit at the Home Office. By addressing the concerns of local communities about damage to their public spaces and low-level criminal behaviour, Evans's version of zero-tolerance policing reduced the murder-rate in the US city by two-thirds in his 10 years in charge. The changes to police structures are likely to be controversial with some chief constables fearful that devolving power to local people will undermine their strategic control of a force's policing. But the Home Office regards Merseyside as blazing a trail for the new reassurance policing. The British Crime Survey shows that since the force established neighbourhood policing, residents fear of violence and burglary has dropped, while detection rates have risen. Crime rates in metropolitan Merseyside are now akin to those in more rural Derbyshire.