This is a victim impact statement prepared by Bijan Ebrahimi's sister, Manizhah Moores:"I make this victim impact statement on behalf of my brother Bijan's close family, namely his three sisters, his brother and his two nephews. The purpose of this statement is to provide the court with a fuller understanding of the impact of Bijan's murder and incineration."In order to explain the impact of these terrible crimes on Bijan and his family, it is necessary to explain something of Bijan's background. He was born in Iran in 1969. In 1981 our mother was left paralysed by a stroke and she passed away in 1991, when Bijan was 22 years of age. In 1992 our father became ill and it was Bijan who looked after him uncomplainingly until our father's slow death to cancer a few years later. Witnessing the death of beloved parents meant that life was precious to Bijan; he knew how fragile it could be."As a result of caring for our parents Bijan did not get the same chances in life as we did, such as a university education. On coming to live in the UK in 2000 at 31 years of age he was therefore determined to make a new beginning. Bijan began to work and attend college with the aim of going to university."Unfortunately a back condition that Bijan had had since his 20s worsened, leading to his struggling with his mobility and in recent years becoming registered disabled. However this did not stop Bijan from completing diplomas in plumbing and carpentry. He also studied a foundation course in IT. For the last two years doctors had also suspected that Bijan had mouth cancer; however he was given the all clear just a week before he had his life stolen from him."Bijan was a kind man whose main interests at home were caring for his stray cat and for his flower baskets. He lived in Bristol throughout his time in the UK and met many good people. Unfortunately he was also subjected to horrendous bullying by bad people on a daily basis. Call it racism, call it prejudice – it doesn't really matter what you call it, the things our brother was subjected to were barbaric. They included setting his home on fire when he lived in West Town Lane [an area of Brislington, Bristol], causing our beloved, softly-spoken brother to slip further and further into depression."As a result Bijan was moved to Capgrave Crescent in Brislington in 2007; however he was deeply unhappy there and had been trying to be relocated for a number of years before his death. Visiting Bijan's flat on regular basis, my sister witnessed him being called a 'foreigner', 'cockroach', 'Paki' and being told to 'go back to your own country' on many occasions by some of the people in the area, which included both young and older people. We hope that nobody else ever has to witness an innocent disabled man being abused, taunted and tortured in the way that Bijan suffered."In our view this prejudice amongst some members of the local community helps explains why events escalated to Bijan being kicked to death and burned on 14 July 2013."In 2008 my sister in Bristol lost her much loved husband to a painful death. Bijan took over the role of being there for my sister and of providing a father figure to her son, a role he took very seriously and enjoyed very much. Bijan has always kept the family together through painful times. He held us when we cried; he made us laugh when we thought we never could again."When Bijan was brutally murdered on 14 July 2013 our lives changed forever. There are no words on this earth that can describe the emptiness we feel. Part of us died with him. Three or four times a week my sister drives to Brislington, sits in her car and cries. Bijan's young nephews have been deeply affected and have needed to seek counselling. On Sundays Bijan's chair is empty."Burning Bijan's body took away the opportunity for us to pay our respects to our brother as we could not view his body before he was laid to rest. To us this felt like Bijan being murdered twice. The loss of Bijan has left a hole in our lives that we can never fill. Our life will never be the same again."