Scotland Yard's investigation into the racist stabbing of Stephen Lawrence took a significant step forward yesterday when a 27-year-old man was arrested and questioned on suspicion of murder.The Guardian has learned that the man in custody is Darren Davies, the cousin of David Norris, one of the five men long considered prime suspects for the murder. Detectives from the 40-strong Lawrence team arrested him yesterday morning while he was at work in south-east London. The operation followed a raid on a property used by him on Monday evening. He was also questioned about allegedly possessing bullets that could be used in 9mm rifles and handguns. Police sources said the arrest was a "positive step in an ongoing and vibrant investigation." Although the Lawrence investigation has been hampered by the failures of previous inquiries and the prejudicial publicity surrounding the case, officers are still optimistic that Stephen's killers, or those who helped them, can be brought to justice. Witnesses who were too frightened to speak out at the time of the murder have come forward in recent months, after repeated appeals for help. They have given fresh and detailed evidence about the number of people in the gang that confronted Stephen as he walked home in Eltham, south-east London, on April 22, 1993. Police now believe they have a clearer picture than ever before about what happened on the evening Stephen died. Five men - the brothers Neil and Jamie Acourt, David Norris, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight - were arrested soon after the killing, but officers are confident that there is scope to charge other people over the murder. Lawyers at the crown prosecution service have been liaising with Scotland Yard for several months and are expected to give advice in January about whether a number of people allegedly involved in the stabbing, including Mr Davies, can be brought to trial. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, has given his full support to the murder reinvestigation, which was launched two years ago and is headed by a deputy assistant commissioner, John Grieve. The Met has pledged to look at every possible avenue, including alibis given by previous suspects, in the hope that convictions will help to draw a line under one of the sorriest episodes in the force's history. Stephen Lawrence was an 18-year-old student when he was attacked and killed by a gang of white youths as he walked home with his friend, Duwayne Brooks.Gary Dobson, Neil Acourt and Luke Knight were acquitted in 1996 of his murder when a private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family collapsed. The case against Jamie Acourt and David Norris was dropped before it reached court. Criticism of the conduct of officers in the original investigation culminated in 1999 with Sir William Macpherson's seminal report, which branded the Metropolitan police "institutionally racist." Earlier this year, Sir John said that he now knew who had killed Stephen Lawrence. The commissioner is hoping that the home secretary, David Blunkett, will end the double jeopardy rule, which prevents defendants being tried twice for the same crime, and that the law will be changed retrospectively. Though Davies's arrest is considered an important development, sources said his suspected involvement was part of a much bigger picture and that the "steady grind" of the investigation would continue.