Two footballers "procured" a drunk teenage girl and raped her as two of their friends watched and filmed, a court has heard. The Wales and Sheffield United striker Ched Evans, 23, and Clayton McDonald, also 23, deny the attack, which allegedly took place at a Premier Inn near Rhyl, north Wales, during a bank holiday last May.John Philpotts, prosecuting, told Caernarfon crown court that the Port Vale defender McDonald, of Marys Gate, Crewe, Cheshire, and Evans, of Ashtree Gardens, Millhouse Green, Penistone, South Yorkshire, had admitted "seperately" having sex with the complainant.But Philpotts said the woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was too drunk to consent to sexual intercourse. A receptionist at the hotel described the woman, who was 19 at the time and worked in a restaurant, as "extremely drunk" and said she was "stumbling" and "slurring" and occasionally grabbing hold of McDonald to steady herself.The receptionist said he saw the two men who were waiting outside watching what was happening in the room through the window.Afterwards, McDonald came through to reception and said: "You know that girl I was with? Keep an eye on her. She's sick." Philpotts said: "He knew how intoxicated the complainant was, dangerously intoxicated, so that she needed to be kept under observation for her own safety."The complainant woke up naked and alone in the hotel room, with only "fragmentary" memories of the night before. Police were informed on the night of Monday, May 30 and the footballers were arrested the following afternoon.Samples taken from the complainant showed no alcohol, which Mr Philpotts said might have been due to "elimination".Evans told police he went to the Premier Inn with his brother Ryan Roberts and "associate" Jack Higgins after he received a text from McDonald saying he had "got a bird". He claimed that after entering the hotel room, McDonald said: "Join in."In interview, McDonald told police that when he met the woman she asked him where he was going and told him she was going with him. He said she had not appeared to be drunk but admitted that others watched through the window.Philpotts said that while the attack happened Jack Higgins and Roberts had watched through a window. Video recordings found on Higgins's phone showed that he had been filming or trying to film the incident.