A jury which convicted two men of murder should have been dismissed after the judge received a letter from a juror alleging serious misconduct by fellow jurors during deliberations, a House of Lords appeal heard yesterday.Self-confessed gangster Patrick Smith and Joe "the Italian" Mercieca were found guilty at the Old Bailey in May 2002 of kidnapping and killing a Hertfordshire businessman and father of four, Mark Levy, in January 2000. The murder apparently took place under the noses of detectives who were watching Smith because they suspected he was about to receive a huge drugs consignment. Smith, 37, from Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex, thought Levy, 43, a former point to point jockey who had appeared on Channel 4's Big Breakfast Steals on Wheels, giving advice on second hand cars, owed him £40,000 for a failed cigarette deal. On January 27 2000, Levy set off to buy 12 Rolex watches for £45,000. But he was tricked into going to an industrial unit in Alperton, west London, where he was bound and gagged, thrown in a car boot and driven to a Bucking hamshire farm, where Smith and Mercieca, 33, from west London, killed him and buried him in a shallow grave. National crime squad officers were tracking Smith's movements and were outside the farm when Levy was murdered. Within hours, a cannabis shipment arrived at a west London warehouse and Smith was arrested. But when police searched the grave 17 days later, Levy's body was gone. It has never been found. The appeal court last year threw out Smith's and Mercieca's attempt to have their convictions quashed, but the pair have now brought the case to the Lords. Yesterday, Clare Montgomery QC, for Smith, told five law lords how a female juror had sent a letter to the court, detailing her worries about the behaviour of some jurors. The woman alleged several jurors were "badgering and intimidating" others to reach the "right" verdict. The jury was aware of Smith's criminal history because of testimony from the police officers who had him under surveillance. One comment the juror quoted was: "Even if they're not guilty, do you really want these people to go free?" The hearing continues.