Your ICM poll (More prisons are not the answer to punishing criminals, says poll, August 28) echoes the findings of two SmartJustice opinion polls. In January 2006 we polled crime victims, finding that almost two in three did not believe that prison reduces non-violent crime. Instead, respondents showed overwhelming support for programmes that focus on prevention, such as support for parents and activities for young people. In January, our women in prison survey showed that 86% of the public want to see alternatives for women offenders.Other research, including from the Joseph Rowntree Trust, has consistently shown that the public are not as punitive as the government believes. Prison has a place for dangerous offenders - but the public are astute enough to understand that locking endless numbers of young people up will never be the answer - it's just an expensive way of making people worse. Yet still the political posturing continues. It's time politicians started listening to the electorate instead of the tabloid press. Sinead Hanks SmartJusticeThe message from the public is that prison isn't working. Recent record numbers have seen the system buckle under the strain. Yet reoffending rates for those leaving custody are shocking. Three-quarters of young men sent to prison are reconvicted, often for several offences. In comparison, community sentencing can reduce reoffending by 22%, compared to a short custodial sentence. We estimate that if community sentences were used in place of short prison sentences for the next five years, we could save 1 million people from becoming victims of crime.The government has spent too long rearranging the administration of the criminal justice system and has virtually abandoned probation and community sentences. The new ministry of justice must champion restorative responses to crime that enable offenders to make amends. Prison has a very limited role for the most serious and violent who continue to represent a danger. We have set up the Commission on English Prisons Today and would welcome readers' views (www.prisoncommission.org.uk). Frances Crook  Director, Howard League for Penal ReformYour article (Planned control orders raise judges' fears for civil liberties, August 28) highlights professional concern at the way some criminal justice reforms are being implemented. The sharp rise in the number of prisoners serving indeterminate sentences for public protection was only recently described by the appeal court as a "general and systemic failure". This was a predictable outcome of the "get tough" populism which paid little heed to how this measure was to be effectively resourced. The proposed introduction of the violent offender order appears to be nothing less than a super-Asbo. The current breach rate for Asbos is over 50%. Is the violent offender order to be yet another trapdoor to prison? The public deserve to be properly protected and that measures aimed at achieving this are evidence-based, proportionate and properly resourced. Mike Guilfoyle Greater London NapoThe long-awaited shift in public opinion indicates most people agree that prison doesn't work. Politicians will need to reflect on whether it is now time to forfeit the cynical chase for votes in favour of common sense and call a halt to the prison-building programme. David Cameron's talk of "anarchy in the UK" is nothing more than a thinly veiled attempt to exploit the fear of crime, and must be challenged. Overall crime has fallen significantly in the last decade. Crime-fighting measures are not dependent on more prisons, as the Conservative leader claims. The focus must be on tackling the causes of crime rather than promoting a false belief that prison represents a cure-all for society's ills. Pauline Campbell Malpas, CheshirePolly Toynbee notes that prison population has reached 80,000 even though crime has fallen (Comment, August 28). Has she considered that the second fact may be directly linked to the first? Bruce Antell Newmarket, Suffolk