A former public schoolgirl dubbed Britain's most wanted woman is back living in Britain, The Observer can reveal, despite a five-year police search for her across five European countries.Conservative politician's daughter Fiona Mont, 34, is wanted by police over her alleged involvement in a £300,000 computer fraud in 1999 - a charge she denies. But Mont, whom friends dubbed 'the cat' because of her ability to avoid capture, is living in a caravan park with her boyfriend and two children just a few miles from her mother's home in Hove, East Sussex. Mont, a one-time law student from a prominent Sussex family - her late father was a criminal lawyer and county under-sherriff and her mother Joan chaired the Conservative county council - was arrested by East Sussex police late in 1999. After being bailed Mont went on the run, first faking her own death in January 2000, leaving her car with the keys in the ignition at notorious suicide spot Beachy Head, and then fleeing the country the following day in a light aircraft piloted by her boyfriend Graham Hesketh, 42, a convicted drug smuggler. Hesketh this week told The Observer how the couple had seen their flight from the authorities together as a romantic Bonnie and Clyde style adventure. 'First we went to Holland, then Belgium, the French Riviera for a bit, oh, and Germany. Then Spain, Gibraltar and Portugal,' said Hesketh. 'We had a caravan so small we called it "the egg" and my old Land Rover, but we were very much in love and we had a great time.' Hesketh picked up jobs as a labourer and the couple had their first child, Samantha, in 2001 but they were tracked down by British police officers and Interpol in December that year and Mont was arrested at a caravan site near Malaga in Spain. She spent a month in a Spanish jail while extradition procedures were processed. 'She was very low at that point,' said Hesketh. 'She thought that was it, she was going to be sent back and go to jail.' But, to the fury of British police, a Spanish magistrate allowed her out on bail and she was on the run again. Back home in the UK her friends set up a website which mocked police for their inability to catch the fugitives. Meanwhile the officer in charge of the case, Detective Constable Steve Skerrett, was reduced to seeking new leads from the public by making television appeals for information on Crimewatch and Britain's Most Wanted . Sussex officers have spent thousands of pounds pursuing her - the two-day police helicopter and coastguard boat hunt at Beachy Head alone cost Sussex taxpayers an estimated £30,000 before Mont's mother admitted she had had a call from her runaway daughter, revealing she had left the country. But now, Hesketh claims, Mont has been living openly back in Sussex for over a year. Their 11-month-old son, Benjamin, was born at Worthing hospital and the family still use the distinctive white Land Rover that Skerrett had asked British holidaymakers to look out for in TV appeals. Hesketh said: 'She's not using any disguises or false names like she has before, just going about her business as normal. We have two children, we just want to get on with life, get married, maybe go back and live in Spain. 'The police would be gutted if they knew how long we'd been here. I'm working, doing odd jobs, but it's all legit, I'm paying tax and everything.' He went on: 'It's no fun being on the run and having to uproot yourself every few weeks, especially with children. It was romantic at first but it was hard too. 'We just want to lead a straight life now and if she has to face any charges, she's ready for it.' Hesketh revealed that Mont first flew back into Britain on a Monarch Airlines flight from Faro in Portugal to Gatwick on 21 November 2002 'to test the water', but was fully expecting to be arrested when she presented her passport to immigration officials. To her shock, she wasn't. 'It was then we realised they didn't really care. Fiona even has the occasional text message from Skerrett and rang the East Sussex Chief Constable's office to ask if she should come in to be questioned. But they never returned her call. So we all started making regular trips and then we moved back permanently.' Hesketh went on: 'We want to clear the air for the sake of the children. We're sick of all this fraud stuff. She says she had nothing to do with it at all. We want to put it behind us and get on with the rest of our lives.' Skerrett has since left the police force and with him, apparently, went much of the interest in closing the open file on the original fraud. A spokesman for Sussex Police said: 'The warrant for Fiona Mont's arrest would seem to have expired. The file on this case remains open. We would be very interested in information about Fiona Mont's current whereabouts if she was here on a long-term basis.'