An NHS doctor who was convicted yesterday of plotting massive car-bomb attacks in London and Glasgow had been on an MI5 watchlist before he launched the campaign, the Guardian has learned.Bilal Abdulla, 29, who is due to be sentenced today for a series of plots including a failed attack on Glasgow airport last June, may have been on the list for 13 months.Last night, Whitehall officials said MI5 held "tracers" on Abdulla that included information which proved helpful to the police once he was identified as one of the bombers. However, the officials insisted there was no evidence available to them at the time which showed he was plotting a terrorist attack.In security and intelligence services language, tracers are fragments of information which may include details of potentially suspicious travel patterns. They do not by themselves indicate evidence of wrongdoing on the part of the people concerned.Abdulla, who was born in the UK but grew up in Iraq, had travelled between the two countries several times in the years leading up to the attacks, most recently in May 2006, when, the prosecution in the trial claimed, he had joined insurgents fighting US-led forces in his homeland. A document recovered from his laptop following the attacks included a statement addressed to an Iraqi insurgent group described as the Soldiers of the Islamic States of Iraq. It read: "God knows that the days I spent with you were the best and most rewarding days of my life."Prosecutors said this proved Abdulla had been actively involved in the insurgency when he returned in 2006. Abdulla denied the charge, saying he did not write the document and adding that the group had not existed before he left Iraq to take up a job as a doctor in the UK. Whitehall officials said although Abdulla was on the MI5 watchlist, there was nothing to suggest he was plotting an attack or had connections with other people who were. "Nothing suggested at the time or with hindsight that the individuals concerned were planning anything," the source said. It was only after an attempted car-bomb attack on a London nightclub failed last June that counter-terrorism officials used details from mobiles left as detonators to check on a database jointly used by MI5, MI6 and GCHQ, the government's eavesdropping centre. Connections were found linking the phone and email details and communications abroad, which helped police and security services speed up their investigations in Britain, according to Whitehall sources.Scotland Yard sent detectives to Iraq to investigate, but did not find any evidence that Abdulla was directly involved with insurgent groups.Abdulla carried out the attacks with Kafeel Ahmed, a PhD student from India, who died from the burns he suffered in the attack on Glasgow airport terminal. A third man, Mohammed Asha, a junior doctor from Jordan, was accused of offering finance and advice for the plot, but was cleared of all involvement by a jury at Woolwich crown court yesterday.Yesterday, Deputy Assistant Commissioner John McDowall, who heads Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism unit, said their was no evidence that either man had travelled abroad for terrorist training. "These individuals were not on our radar and that in itself is very interesting. When you look at the profile of these individuals they are very different from the terrorists we have dealt with in this country before - being professional people ... they simply weren't on our radar."McDowall said although the gang were probably inspired by al-Qaida in Iraq, they were self-starters with little or no contact with overseas commanders."This was a group that was largely self-motivated, came up with the ideas themselves, tutored themselves through the internet. "I don't think they received significant training elsewhere, which is unusual from what we have had."The court heard the pair began planning the attacks in February 2007 and communicated regularly online while Abdulla was working at the Royal Alexandra hospital in Paisley, and Ahmed was living in India.The bombs outside the Tiger Tiger nightclub were packed with nails, but failed to explode, one because of a loose wire in the mobile phone detonator, the other because there was not enough oxygen in the car. The club was packed with more than 500 customers and the jury heard it was "no more than good fortune that nobody died". The day after the failed London attacks, Saturday 30 June, the busiest day of the year at Glasgow airport, Ahmed and Abdulla drove a Jeep packed with gas canisters into the doors of the terminal building.It again failed to explode and both men then got out of the vehicle and threw petrol bombs in an attempt to set their vehicle alight. They were arrested at the scene and Ahmed died of his injuries a month later.