The two biggest intelligence organisations for non-terrorist crime, NCIS and Customs, also have an agreed protocol and claim to work well together. But they do not like each other. Talk to Customs people about NCIS and you are told: "We don't get the service we need from them. In fact, NCIS is not a service at all. It is a player with its own agenda. We have a problem with NCIS."Talk to NCIS people about Customs and you will be told Customs have no business in law enforcement at all and, with loud laughter: "They are supposed to be dealing with excise and the trade in bushmeat, aren't they?" Customs was furious that NCIS set up its own international network of drug liaison officers when Customs already had one; NCIS says it had no option because Customs would not share the intelligence from its network and, even now, insists on having its own officer based inside NCIS to control the Customs intelligence terminal. Some of the results of these bad relations are alarming. For example, for years, the border agencies have been fretting at the sheer practical difficulties of screening the 200 million passengers a year who flow through our 142 civil airportsand the 53 million who pass through the 70 main sea ports. Finally, in 2000, parliament inserted into the Terrorism Act a measure requiring all airlines and shipping companies to give advance copies of their passenger lists to the border agencies, so that they could start their search for suspect terrorists or serious criminals before the stampede of passengers swirled through the arrivals hall. So the companies handed over the lists - to Customs, who then refused to hand them on to Special Branch or to Immigration on the grounds that that transaction was not covered by the new law and arguably would be a breach of the Data Protection Act and the Human Rights Act. In the absence of an agreed legal gateway, Customs said each name on each passenger list would have to be individually considered - all 253 million of them. Special Branch officers complained bitterly to the Home Office, whose organised crime unit apparently agreed with them and called a meeting of all sides, but the Customs representative failed to turn up. Senior police say this is still "bunged up" so that, in spite of parliament's will, Special Branch and Immigration have no way of knowing who is about to arrive in the UK. Indeed, as travellers pour through an arrival hall, the bad relations between the border agencies can eat further holes in the security blanket. Immigration may stop travellers and record their names, but Special Branch says it is generally blocked from checking those names, because Immigration claims it would be a breach of the Data Protection Act to share them. If Special Branch independently spots somebody suspicious, officers have powers to interview them - but only within the precincts of the port or airport. Once they are out on to the streets, the job passes to Immigration officers. They may interview suspect migrants. They may check their fingerprints with the national database (except that their computer systems have proved to be incompatible). They may decide that the traveller is suspect, but their policy is to release them into the community while they make a decision on whether they can stay, which drives Special Branch crazy. "Immigration are frankly incompetent on investigation," according to one senior police source. At Gatwick airport and in the Kent ports, the local arms of the three border agencies have set up joint units which are said to be overcoming these problems, but the agencies have failed to roll this out nationally, because, we were told, the local initiatives are led by the police, and Customs and Immigration will not cede power to the police on a national policy, even if it would mean more effective operations. When David Blunkett persuaded the French to allow British immigration officers to be stationed in France, Customs refused to take part, citing the fact that Mr Blunkett is from the Home Office while their minister is part of the Treasury. Even at the heart of UK counter-terrorism - the link between MI5 and Special Branch - there are defects. A former MI5 officer told us his colleagues frequently identified "the common enemy" as the Metropolitan Police Special Branch. And HM Inspectorate of Constabulary (HMIC) last year found that, although working relationships were often good, MI5 complained that Special Branch sent them too many unnecessary reports, while Special Branch complained that MI5 was too slow to respond, and both agencies occasionally squabbled about who owned a particular operation or informant. Many of these weaknesses are known to the government. Last year, in an outspoken report on Special Branch, HMIC found that: · Some Special Branches were simply too small to be effective, while others lost officers who were "routinely diverted" to other police work by their chief constables, some of whom did not regard counter-terrorism as a priority or had even merged their Special Branch into other units; · Nobody was in charge of coordinating the 55 Special Branches, and the whole national police effort against terrorism was being run through a committee of the chief constables' union, Acpo; · Special Branches had "no coherent IT policy" - no national database for their intelligence, no national links with each other, often no regional links, sometimes no link even to their own force, and some local offices were so short of computers that they had been "forced back to paper systems"; · Officers at ports and airports were often compelled to work in offices which were "most unpleasant ... [with] inappropriate siting, insufficient space and lack of security" simply because operating companies wanted to use the best space for commercial profit. HMIC urged the government to deal with the weakness of some local Special Branches by creating a new network of 10 regional branches, warning: "There are significant weaknesses in the current structure of Special Branch ... to the detriment of the branch's ability to respond consistently to the current level of terrorist threat. The threatened use of chemical, biological, radioactive and nuclear devices by terrorists is now a reality requiring a concerted response, to which many smaller Special Branches would find it difficult to contribute." The Home Office took up the cause with the support of some senior police, but the Treasury blocked them simply by refusing to provide any new money. The Home Office had some cash left in a central Special Branch pot and used it to set up a national coordinator, as HMIC had suggested, with eight regional intelligence cells, but they are small, they have no surveillance capacity or operational support and, if they want any back-up, they have to go begging to local chief constables, competing with other priorities. Even with this very limited initiative, the Home Office was able to pay for only about 60% of the costs and has asked local forces to fund the rest. In an attempt to close the remaining gap in the counter-terrorist defence, the Home Office has applied for new money in the next spending round so that these regional cells can at least have their own surveillance teams. With some Special Branches thus severely undermanned, the government then considered their IT problems, which HMIC said were "severely limiting the effectiveness of Special Branches and should be addressed urgently". The official response was to stick with existing plans for a new information network which is said to address some of the problems but will still leave branches unable to exchange intelligence with other forces and agencies. Finally, the government looked at security facilities at ports and airports, including the lack of computer links to intelligence databases, which were said to be "wholly inadequate and seriously detrimental to the effectiveness of ports units ... [because] the consequences of a missed identification are potentially disastrous". Essentially, no action is to be taken, on the grounds that, as one senior source put it, "HMIC over-egged the pudding". There is no doubt that, since the al-Qaida attacks in the US, the British government has moved with speed and conviction to improve counter-terrorist defences. They gave the intelligence agencies £54m of new money in each of the two years after the attacks; they have created two new units inside MI5 to analyse intelligence and to communicate with police forces; each force now has a counter-terrorism security adviser to find vulnerable targets and to advise on their protection; NCIS and Special Branch have both launched a drive to trace and freeze terrorist funds. Even before the attacks, the agencies had tried to improve their joint working by seconding officers into each other's ranks and setting up a series of special liaison committees to link agencies with common targets: Cida for drugs, Reflex for human trafficking, Cifca for money-laundering. But, despite these initiatives, it is clear that some of those who work most closely with this security apparatus remain fearful that the government has failed to do enough. They say there is a hole in the heart of the operation, that there is no central strategy, that each agency is treading its own path, guessing or hoping that somehow or other their work will not overlap with the others. "Nobody is in charge," we were told. This, in turn, is said to reflect an astonishing lack of the most basic research into the big picture of serious crime and terrorism: "Arguably, the main point in all this is that nobody knows how much organised crime there is, or how they are operating, or how they link to terrorist groups. MI5 will have their picture, MI6 will have theirs, but they will come from their own database with their own interests and they will be distorted. There is nobody who stands outside these agencies and draws on all of the available sources - not just the intelligence agencies but economists and academics and criminal lawyers and prosecution records and political scientists - to analyse the problem and then convert that into structure and strategy. You would think this would be fundamental, but it doesn't happen." An operational strategy is supposed to flow from regular meetings of the agencies in the Strategic Customers Group, chaired by the Home Office, but they are guided by the annual UK threat assessment, which is produced by NCIS and which is almost universally derided by insiders on the grounds that it is too generalised to be of any use; that it is out of date by the time it is produced, and that, while claiming to summarise "threats to the UK from serious and organised crime", it has never once identified terrorism as a threat. Similarly, an intelligence strategy is supposed to be produced by the annual UK requirements and priorities paper, produced by the Joint Intelligence Organisation and endorsed by one of the cabinet's most powerful committees, made up of the prime minister, his deputy, the chancellor, and the secretaries of state for foreign, defence and home affairs. And yet this committee has a long history of simply failing to meet and, furthermore, of ignoring complaints about this failure. Between May 2001 and April 2003, it never held a single session. So, for example, the UK requirements paper in June 2001 suggested putting a higher priority on the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, but this committee had still not endorsed the plan when, three months later, Taliban allies started murdering thousands of people in New York and Washington DC. As an example of this general failure of leadership, insiders quote their problems with the data protection act as a recurrent obstacle. In 2001, the former head of MI6, Sir David Spedding, reviewed the UK response to serious and organised crime and insisted on the need for legal gateways to allow essential information to flow past data protection obstacles. And yet two years later, senior sources tell us, nobody in the government has produced a list of these gateways, and the Home Office unit which specialises in the exchange of intelligence has concentrated on finding gateways for local police to swap data with health and social services. Occasionally, the lack of government direction becomes actively obstructive. There is concern about the way that performance targets encourage agencies to pursue their own goals at the expense of working with others: why would chief constables divert resources to Special Branch when the Home Office is leaning on them so heavily to deliver on burglary and car crime; why would chief constables work together on regional security when the Home Office is demanding that each of them should compete against the other to reach the top quartile of crime figures; why should Customs sacrifice its seizure targets to help the National Crime Squad hit its prosecution targets; why would any law-enforcement agency jeopardise its performance targets to help secret intelligence agencies who have no such targets to hit; where is the joined-up thinking?Similarly, the potential for joint operations between agencies is limited by Treasury rules on spending. They have allowed, for example, two payments of £54m for counter-terrorist intelligence and a further £11.45m for drugs intelligence, but the funds are all ring-fenced and cannot be spent according to operational need. Or again, law enforcement agencies have been begging the Treasury to let them jointly fund Jaric, which produces intelligence from satellite images, but the Treasury insists that it must be funded entirely by the Ministry of Defence. Insiders suggest that the prime minister's review of these agencies is likely to recommend the merger of the National Crime Squad with NCIS and other smaller specialist groups such as the Serious Fraud Office, but that it will fail to answer the wider structural questions: why do we have two separate domestic intelligence agencies in MI5 and NCIS; why do we have three separate border agencies; should Customs be involved in law enforcement at all; why do we divide the investigation of serious crime from counter-terrorism; how can we create powerful national agencies without losing the "golden thread" of intelligence from local police; who is in charge; who is going to devise a central strategy; and who will enforce it? Real structural change is almost certainly necessary, and the Home Office is said to be planning a white paper for the new year. But the big worry is that the government will fall into the trap of imagining that structural change alone will deliver success without finally standing back and researching its enemies, without clearing away the legal obstacles which it has left in the way of joint working, and, most of all, without addressing the problems of selfish management and its own lack of central leadership. "If al-Qaida could mount an attack upon key economic targets or upon our transport infrastructure, they would. If they could inflict damage on the health of our population, they would. So, we have a duty to ensure we give priority to security." David Blunkett, November 2002 The system from hell· MI5 Terror Yes Drugs Yes Human traffic No Migrant No Fiscal No· Special Branch Terror Yes Drugs No Human traffic No Migrant No Fiscal No· National Crime Squad Terror No Drugs Yes Human traffic Yes Migrant No Fiscal No · National Criminal Intelligence Service Terror No Drugs Yes Human traffic Yes Migrant No Fiscal No· Customs and Excise Terror No Drugs Yes Human traffic No Migrant No Fiscal Yes· Immigration Service Terror No Drugs No Human traffic No Migrant Yes Fiscal No· MI6 Terror Yes Drugs Yes Human traffic Yes Migrant No Fiscal No· GCHQ Terror Yes Drugs Yes Human traffic No Migrant No Fiscal No