A marble was stuffed into Damilola Taylor's mouth to stop him crying out in pain after he was stabbed, the Old Bailey was told yesterday.A former inmate of a young offenders' institution said he was told about the marble by one of two brothers accused of killing the 10-year-old. He said the conversation took place in showers at Feltham after he was remanded there for robbery in March. The marble was found lodged in Damilola's mouth during a postmortem examination but was not made public until the Sun ran a story in June last year. In cross-examination, the 17-year-old denied reading about the detail in the newspaper before making his statement to police a month later. Damilola died in November 2000 after being stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle on the north Peckham estate, south London. Two brothers aged 16 and a 15-year-old youth deny murder. Another 17-year-old had earlier told the court that he was told by the brothers that Damilola had been killed "for a laugh". The young offenders are the first of several from two detention centres where the brothers are alleged to have made admissions about their involvement. Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria, bent their heads as the first youth said: "He said 'Don't tell nothing to no one'. He told me what happened. "He told me he was there but he didn't do nothing. There was five of them. They saw him walk past and they called him over. "The boy didn't have any money and someone said 'You must have 50p'. He told me one of them's got a knife. One of them stabbed him in his leg. I can't remember the name. "He told me the boy was jumping up and down in pain. To shut him up they put something in his mouth - a marble or something." The boy added: "I was angry. I was going to punch him but an officer came in and said we had to go out of the showers." The youth was later given two years' detention for being in a gang which robbed a man after attacking him with a bottle. He also had a previous finding of guilt for robbing a boy of his mobile. The second 17-year-old witness told the court he spoke to one brother while the other one smiled during an induction session in February 2001. He said: "He explained they had done it for a laugh and it was something to do." The youth, who was sentenced to four months for assault and criminal damage, had asked the brothers what they were there for. "They said murder. I asked them who they had murdered and they said some kid in Peckham. "I asked what they had done to murder the little kid and they admitted to stabbing him in the leg, leaving him there to bleed. "They had no shame and didn't stop laughing." The trial continues today. Press Association