Road safety campaigners yesterday criticised a judge's decision to grant an absolute discharge to a policeman who was found guilty of driving an unmarked patrol car at up to 159mph. PC Mark Milton, who had claimed he was honing his driving skills, was convicted of dangerous driving but district judge Peter Wallis ruled at Ludlow magistrates court that the two and a half years of legal proceedings he had faced was punishment enough.Campaigners welcomed the conviction but insisted the sentence gave out the wrong message. Jo Stagg, of the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents, said: "The severity of the punishment should match the severity of the offence. Some motorists have been banned from driving, have been fined and have had points put on their licence for travelling at lower speeds. Police have to respond to emergencies and may have to exceed the speed limit, for which they would have received training, but we believe they should only do that in a genuine emergency or during properly managed training sessions."Milton, an armed response officer, was originally acquitted of dangerous driving in May last year. The Crown Prosecution Service appealed and the high court ordered that he face a retrial.During his retrial this week, the prosecution claimed that Milton, 38, of Telford, drove a police 3.2-litre Vauxhall Vectra at "eye-watering" speeds in the early hours of a morning in December 2003. An on-board video camera fitted to his vehicle suggested he travelled at more than three times the speed limit in 30mph zones, at more than 100mph on A-roads and at up to 159mph on the M54 in Shropshire.Milton, an officer for 12 years, argued he was polishing the driving skills he had been taught during an advanced driving course and familiarising himself with a new car. A former police driving instructor, Douglas Boulton, said he could find "no problem" with Milton's driving.The judge told Milton: "Your driving falls far beneath the standards expected of a careful and competent driver. I am satisfied to the criminal standard of proof that you are guilty of dangerous driving." But he continued: "He [Milton] has suffered quite a lot over the last two and a half years. I am going to grant an absolute discharge."Outside court Milton's team said he would appeal against conviction. The move postpones any disciplinary action against him, and for the moment Milton will be allowed to continue his duties, though he has asked not to be given any jobs requiring advanced driving skills.In the light of the Milton case West Mercia police have told officers they should only break speed limits when under the guidance of instructors. A spokeswoman said: "Steps have been put in place to ensure that all advanced drivers know what they can and cannot do when driving vehicles above the posted speed limit."The Association of Chief Police Officers said there was no national guidance on the issue. The road safety charity Brake claimed the court had failed to show society that dangerous driving would be punished. Its chief executive, Mary Williams, said: "Letting him walk away from court completely unpunished is absurd. There is absolutely no excuse for driving at killer speeds on a public highway; he endangered his own life and the lives of others."We need to be toughening up on dangerous drivers, not letting them off."