Relatives of Becky Watts and the police who investigated the crime have expressed anger and frustration that they may never know what really happened to the murdered 16-year-old.Becky’s stepbrother Nathan Matthews, 28, and his partner, Shauna Hoare, 21, will be sentenced for the sexually motivated killing on Friday.Matthews, a former army reservist and fast-food delivery driver, may join the likes of serial killers Ian Brady and Rose West, who have been told they will never leave prison. But members of Becky’s family are upset that they still do not know the precise circumstances surrounding the Bristol teenager’s killing and the dismemberment of her body before it was hidden in a garden shed.Mother of Becky Watts killer describes him as a 'monster' Anjie Galsworthy – Matthews’s mother and Becky’s stepmother – described her son as a “monster” but insisted she still loved him and would visit him in prison to try to discover what drove him to murder his stepsister. Becky’s grandmother, Pat Watts, described Matthews’s account of what happened as ridiculous, and said: “I don’t think we will ever know what really happened to Becky.”The senior investigating officer, Det Supt Mike Courtiour, said both the family and officers were frustrated that they could not be sure of the sequence of events. He said: “Nobody actually knows precisely what happened. We have had an account from Nathan Matthews, an explanation of what he said happened. Nobody knows the precise events.”Courtiour said knowing would provide some sort of conclusion for Becky’s family. But he added: “In a great many cases we never actually know what happened. It remains a frustration to the police, the prosecution and the family.”During the trial at Bristol crown court, Matthews maintained he accidentally killed Becky in her bedroom, strangling her when a plot to kidnap her to teach her a lesson for her supposed treatment of Anjie Galsworthy went wrong. He insisted Hoare was not involved and knew nothing about the killing, dismemberment or the concealing of the remains.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Becky Watts was targeted in a sexually motivated attack. Photograph: Avon and Somerset police/PAThe prosecution argued that Becky was targeted by Matthews and Hoare in a sexually motivated abduction and together they dismembered her body and hid the remains. The jury clearly disbelieved Matthews’s account, finding him guilty of murder and Hoare of manslaughter.Police and family members are still not convinced that the body was dismembered in the bath of the couple’s home as Matthews claimed, pointing out that there was no damage to the room or any trace of Becky’s blood.Watts said: “Nathan Matthews had a ridiculous story and he just stuck to it. The idea that he cut her up alone in the bathroom, with his eyes closed, and did no damage, is ridiculous.Becky Watts: a shy girl who was growing in confidence “The forensics found nothing and spent a long time in there, and so you have got to wonder whether it did happen like that and if everything was done there. Lots of things have been said that don’t make sense. I just don’t think those questions will ever go.”Becky’s father, Darren Galsworthy, told ITV: “He got into the witness box and just lied all the way through it. I got so stressed because I couldn’t shout out, I had to be dignified. All we want is the truth, and he wouldn’t give it.”Giving more details about the scale of the investigation, police revealed they had examined about 300 digital devices as they searched for Becky, and, later, for evidence of why she had been killed.They eventually discovered text message exchanges between Matthews and Hoare about kidnapping petite teenage girls for sex. Their phones and computers were used to access pornography focused on teenagers, young women dressed as schoolgirls and threesomes, and their laptop contained a 17-minute video of a young woman being raped in her own home.Detectives also revealed how Matthews only told them where Becky’s remains were after his solicitor had asked them if they had found blood upstairs at his and Hoare’s home. Police said they had – but tests later showed that it was Matthews’s own blood and not Becky’s they had found.They also revealed that they realised it was unlikely they would find Becky alive when they found a receipt for a circular saw bought by Matthews two days after she went missing.Meanwhile, the case could be one of the last in which the legal concept of joint enterprise is used in its current form. The trial judge, Mr Justice Dingemans, explained to the jury that a person could be guilty of an offence even if they did not physically carry out the crime if they had acted together with others and had the “same criminal purpose or knowledge of what the others may do”.Four supreme court justices are considering whether changes to the law are needed following concern that sometimes people on the very fringe of crimes are being unfairly caught under joint enterprise. The supreme court ruling was not made in time to affect the case and is not expected until the new year.Matthews and Hoare will be sentenced with Jaydene Parsons, 23, and Karl Demetrius, 30, who owned the shed where Becky’s body parts were hidden. The pair admitted assisting an offender. Matthews faces a mandatory life sentence but could die in prison as the sexually motivated murder of a child can carry a whole-life tariff.