Listening to a young person talk about their experience of being groomed and abused is chastening and humbling. Each story is unique to that child. But all are tales of sadness, of wanting to be loved and to belong, and then of experiencing horrific sexual violence, of being violated, raped and misused on a relentless basis and often for years.Our inquiry into the scale and prevalence of the sexual exploitation of children and young people in gang or group contexts, which reports its initial findings today, discovered more than 2,400 confirmed victims over 14 months, and 16,500 at severe risk of abuse over 12 months. The true figure will almost certainly be higher, because we did not receive evidence from all agencies who support the victims.The consequences of abuse can be devastating: self-harm, sexually transmitted infections and pregnancy, physical injuries, drug and alcohol abuse, serious mental health problems, and offending and violent behaviour.In both gang and group contexts children from as young as 11 are preyed upon by those who are stronger and more powerful. They are drawn into webs of sexual, physical and psychological violence from which it is extraordinarily difficult to escape.One girl we heard from was groomed and raped from the age of 13 and had become dependent on her exploiters for the drugs and alcohol to which she had become addicted. Towards the end of her seven years of abuse, she was expected to provide new victims for her network of exploiters. If she failed to do this, she was repeatedly raped. For most of this time she was in local authority care.Another girl was sexually abused between the ages of four and nine by several male family members. This was not identified by any agency, despite the fact that her behaviour was highly sexualised. When she was 11, she was raped over three days by a group of ten 14 and 15 year-old boys. The violence only stopped when another girl saw what was happening and called the police.During the first 12 months of our two-year investigation we have heard almost unbearable stories of children being violated. We have spoken with children who have been abducted, trafficked, beaten and threatened after being drawn into a web of sexual violence with promises of love. We have listened to accounts of children who have suffered in silence for years as they are casually and routinely raped by boys in their neighbourhood – as they walk to the shops, as they play in the park, or as they head home after school. The vast majority of perpetrators are male. The victims are almost always girls.Our inquiry raises difficult and challenging questions. Above all, we need to ask why so many males, both young and old, think it is acceptable to treat both girls and boys as objects to be used and abused. We need to consider why professionals still miss the signs of abuse, and also to consider the impact of pornography on children.This is a not a problem within one particular faith or ethnic group: our evidence shows the reality is much more troubling. We found the perpetrators of abuse tended to mirror the makeup of the local population, so where the population was mainly white, the abusers were mainly white; and where other ethnic groups lived, the perpetrators were likewise. There have been recent high-profile cases of Pakistani men abusing white girls, but focusing purely on this pattern of abuse is dangerous. It has inevitably meant that both victims and abusers from other ethnicities have been overlooked. Those who perpetrate these crimes come from every community and every level in society.This report is a wake-up call, providing incontrovertible proof that the sexual exploitation and objectification of children must be urgently addressed. It includes a list of the warning signs children show if they are being sexually abused. All professionals who work with young people, including the police, health services, youth offending teams and children's social services, must look out for these. And where they suspect exploitation, they have an absolute duty to share this information with each other and act on it.But every one of us must also do more to protect children. As one child said to me, after telling her story: "I can let go now because you are dealing with this."• Comments on this article will be turned on in the morning