The 11-year career of the world's biggest bootlegger came to an end yesterday when he was jailed for three and a half years for ripping off some of the pop industry's biggest stars to the tune of at least £15m.Mark Purseglove, 33, drove a £104,000 Aston Martin, sported a Rolex Oyster watch and owned several homes in the most exclusive parts of London, all of which were funded by his international business in counterfeit CDs.His empire was built with a business acumen which even the police found impressive. Concentrating on such bands as Oasis, the Beatles, Eminem, David Bowie and Madonna, Purseglove used crooked sound engineers and members of the public to make his illicit recordings. He sold the CDs, which cost him £1 to make, for an average of 15 times that amount at music festivals, shops and online. In one case he sold a CD billed as a rare item for £130 .Ringo Starr, Paul McCartney, Mick Hucknall of Simply Red, Jason Kay of Jamiroquai, and Des'ree, had been lined up to give evidence against him at a four-day sentencing hearing.But at Blackfriars crown court, Purseglove pleaded guilty to conspiracy to defraud between or December 1991 and June 2002, denying the stars their chance.Sentencing him yesterday Judge Timothy Pontius said: "Very large numbers of illicit CDs were produced and sold over the years with significant potential loss, not only to recording companies but also to performers and composers who make a considerable part of their living from the percentage paid to them upon the sale of authorised recordings." Over the years Purseglove was pursued by the FBI and taken to court by the British Phonographic Industry, but his business expanded, taking in Japan, Germany, the US and Britain.He even carried on the industry while in prison in America and chose names like Criminal Records, Wanted Man and Fugitive for his record company labels.After being deported from America following a six-month sentence, Purseglove continued to avoid detection by banking his profits in accounts in Britain and overseas.The BPI, however, had him in their sights. The court heard that they carried out a lengthy surveillance operation which identified his contacts and his fortune, which police estimated yesterday could have been around £15m.On June 18 2002, officers raided premises including rented offices behind the Royal Albert Hall, in central London, and a lock-up in Wandsworth, south-west London. In the latter they discovered 28,000 CDs, and 200,000 pieces of "impressively high quality" artwork.David Groome, prosecuting, told the hearing that Purseglove commissioned, manufactured and sold illicit and unavailable recordings of music by virtually every well-known artist in the world.Purseglove owned a £1.1m townhouse in Chelsea, with marble floors, a £550,000 house nearby in Old Church Street and another home in Sussex. Outside each he parked sports cars and travelled regularly to five-star hotels across the world with his girlfriend.Police found debts of £44,000 on his string of credit cards. When they arrived to arrest him they found him in the process of purchasing a Salvador Dali sculpture from Hong Kong for tens of thousands of pounds.Detective constable Chris Horne, the case officer, said: "He was a brilliant businessman, just in the wrong trade. I have no doubt he could have made just as much money, if not more, legitimately." David Martin, head of the BPI anti-piracy unit, said Purseglove had been a thorn in their side for 13 years. "You don't get pirates any bigger than Purseglove." Should Purseglove fail to hand over assets of £1.8m by the end of March next year, a further five years will be added to his sentence.