Home Office ministers moved quickly yesterday to kick into touch some of the Lawrence inquiry's more controversial recommendations including the abolition of the 'double jeopardy' rule and the introduction of a new crime of using racist language in private. But Jack Straw is to press ahead with many other of the report's 70 key recommendations, including the setting of recruitment targets for black and Asian police officers, the introduction of a much tougher police disciplinary regime, and a drive to rebuild the confidence of the ethnic communities in policing. Paul Boateng, the Home Office minister, yesterday effectively quashed Sir William Macpherson's suggestion that the law should be changed to allow prosecution for the use of racist language and behaviour in private, saying: 'We are not in the business in Government of political correctness.' The second proposal which had already attracted much flak on civil liberties grounds was that to give the Court of Appeal power to allow a second prosecution for the same offence after a first acquittal if fresh and viable evidence became available. Mr Straw kicked that proposal to abolish 'double jeopardy' into the long grass when he announced he had asked the Law Commission to carry out a review of the rule. Stephen Silber QC, a Law Commissioner, said yesterday it would need to be examined carefully. 'One has got to have a balance between the interests of the defendant, who can't be prosecuted repeatedly, and the public interest where a miscarriage of justice has previously occurred,' he said, adding that it was conceivable a situation might arise where the matter was so serious consent should be given for a second prosecution where new evidence arose. The Appeal Court would have to consent in each case. 'Our task will be to work out the principles from which the Court of Appeal should work, and what we are hoping to do is to produce a consultation paper, get the views of all interested parties and then publish a report which hopefully would be implemented.'  This process usually takes at least a year. It is also clear that it could not be retrospective and so would not apply in the Lawrence case. But one further battleground is expected to be over Macpherson's recommendation that Freedom of Information legislation should apply to all areas of policing, operational and administrative, subject only to the 'substantial harm' test. Police organisations objected strongly a year ago to a more limited proposal in the FOI white paper which excluded disclosure of 'information relating to the investigation and prosecution functions of the police'. The Association of Chief Police Officers even objected to disclosing documents relating to administrative functions, as they might have 'an intelligence value to those who threaten the public peace'.  Maurice Frankel, director of the Freedom of Information Campaign, said yesterday: 'Under the proposals not a single step in the catalogue of incompetence and prejudice documented in the Macpherson report would be available under the proposed Freedom of Information Act.'  The Home Secretary however has repeatedly made clear his desire to see the introduction of recruitment targets for black and Asian police officers. He has said there will be a national target of 7 per cent in proportion to the number of black and Asian Britons. It is expected that inner-city areas would have much higher targets. Mr Straw has also made it clear recently that he regards it as totally unacceptable that there are eight 'almost white' police forces.  Home Office officials are already working on a new Race Relations Act which can now be expected in the Queen's Speech later this year. This will bring the whole of the public sector within the terms of the 1976 legislation, including the police, enabling the Commission for Racial Equality to launch investigations into what is happening in individual police forces and other public services.  Individuals who are discriminated against will be able to sue both named civil servants and the institutions and claim damages.