The August riots have left a firm imprint on our collective conscience. With such drastic and unexpected events, it is easy to get swept along with the inevitable tide of media commentary and politicking, and for decisions to be made without a thorough analysis of their consequences. At times like this, as we try to understand and review policy in light of such devastating events, it is essential that we turn to evidence.We know that most damage was done in communities suffering most from poverty, disadvantage and a depressed environment. Those rioting and looting laid waste some of the poorest communities in Britain and the victims were among the poorest people.Of course, there are areas of acute economic desperation where no riots happened. The overwhelming majority of people living in poverty had nothing to do with these events. So it is dangerous to connect poverty, bad housing, poor life chances or weak parenting with these shocking events, without researching the links thoroughly.This is why we are working in partnership with the Guardian, LSE and Open Society Foundations to examine the evidence carefully, to understand exactly why the riots occurred.But it is clear something has, and is, going wrong in our communities. We know from the Joseph Rowntree Foundation's own evidence that people in some places feel absolutely powerless. And we know that many feel little loyalty to or involvement in their communities.We know that they believe their aspirations are frustrated and that whatever their effort they will not be recognised. People are worried about living in a culture that has increasingly defined status through material possessions and the accumulation of possessions as worthy in its own right.We know about the devastating effects of recession on communities – with some never coming out of recession. None of this excuses or even explains rioting, and it certainly does not give us a clear direction for preventing riots in the future – but it does emphasise the urgent need to tackle these social problems head-on.We are living through very challenging times. The global financial crisis continues to affect the circumstances of every single person in the UK, and a national programme of austerity affects us all.We need to rely on evidence about what happened and its effects, and we need to develop understanding and knowledge, not just anecdotes. Otherwise we will be doomed to repeat the mayhem and misery of August 2011, and yet again the poorest people and places will pay the biggest price.