They are combing acres of CCTV footage and mobile phone records, analysing forensic material and bank statements in an effort to identify those who helped the July 7 bombers bring murder and mayhem to London.But many of these latest police recruits are far from novices when it comes to the battle against terrorism. Some already have 30 years' service under their belts, including experience of another violent campaign, waged by the IRA.As police forces across the country are stretched to the limit by the ongoing anti-terrorist investigations, more and more retired officers are returning to the fold to help.There has been a 40% surge in demand for former officers from forces throughout the UK since July 7, according to RIG Police Recruit, the company that helps recruit officers."Increasing numbers of former officers who are registering their availability for police work since July 7 are telling us that they are doing so because they are keen to 'do their bit' to help out during the current terrorist threat," said a spokesman for the firm.A total of 210 former officers are now back in the police service and have been drafted in to help as CCTV experts, hate crime case handlers, crime file assessors and custody officers as the nature of policing changes post-July 7.Robert Bolt retired from the police service nearly 10 years ago after being injured while tackling two burglars. But now the former inspector, who took part in the hunt for child murderer Robert Black, is back working for Merseyside police."I was in the service for 28 years," said Mr Bolt. "I left in 1996 after getting injured on duty but I missed the life, I missed the camaraderie. It gets in your blood. Ordinary life is just not the same. It's not just a job, it's more a way of life. There has been a tendency to lose people too quickly."He knows many other officers who want to return because of the bombings. "What they have to offer is a wealth of experience," he said. "It can be particularly helpful now."Restructuring plansThe return of these officers is just one of the ways in which policing in Britain is changing rapidly to deal with terrorism and the other demands of modern crime-fighting. Other plans to radically alter the structure of the police are to be presented to the home secretary next month.As Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner, has admitted, the new threat may well alter the face of British policing forever.While police chiefs have welcomed Tony Blair's new proposals to fight terrorism, including plans to deport foreign nationals who advocate violence, more control orders against British citizens, and the promise to consider calls to hold suspects for up to three months without charge, the threat of further attacks could also mean an increase in the numbers of armed officers on the streets, an expansion of the special branch, and a blurring of lines between local and national forces.Sir Ian has signalled that because of the vast demands on his officers, there would have to be serious reconsideration about the size and structure of the Metropolitan police. Over the weeks since the July 7 attacks, as many as 6,000 officers, half of them armed, have been on the streets of London at any one time, leave has been cancelled, and retired officers and staff from other forces have been drafted in to help. The investigation is costing £500,000 a day above normal policing costs.The increased presence of officers on the streets has had its own effect. In the six London boroughs where the bomb attacks were targeted and which consequently had a highly visible police presence in the following weeks, crime dropped year-on-year for July by 12%.Tarique Ghaffur, the Met's assistant commissioner in charge of combating serious and organised crime, admitted many of his major investigations are on hold as 10% of his officers have been seconded to the anti-terrorism operation. But he warned that longer-term budgetary and strategy implications must be considered.Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, said they must be allowed enough rest, and that "all stops must be pulled out" to increase numbers from the current 31,000 to the promised 35,000."If the prevailing situation is allowed to continue, the Met will become worn down to the point where its ability to protect London not only from terrorists but also from everyday robberies, burglaries and other crime will be fatally compromised. The threat of terrorism is not going to go away, so we do not have the luxury of time in which to ponder a strategy."Professor PAJ Waddington, of Reading University, one of the country's leading authorities on policing and author of The Strong Arm of the Law, said that Sir Ian was likely to act soon to ask for more resources."The police feel that they are being pulled in competing directions," he said. There was a limit to the time that the current level of visible policing could be maintained. "They need rest, recuperation and training."Barrie Irving, former head of the Police Foundation who is now at the Institute of Criminology at Cambridge University, thought Sir Ian was making "a pre-emptive plea for fairly dramatic changes in the Met's budget so that they would have a whole new unit which would be centrally budgeted for and with different rules".While the capital will doubtless continue to bear the brunt of the terrorist threat, some observers feel regional forces will also have to consider a more nationally integrated approach.For instance, the British Transport Police pulled 900 extra officers from all over Britain to London in the weeks just after the bombings, leaving regional forces to co-operate over security at mainline stations and other key sites around the country.Professor Allyson MacVean, of the John Grieve Centre for Policing and Community Safety, said recent events could lead to a national police structure similar to that of the FBI. She sees the Serious and Organised Crime Agency, which starts work next year, as an indication of things to come. "It's a model that could emerge. You are now having to map the problem nationally rather than regionally."Next month, a report on the merits or otherwise of merging some of the 43 police forces in England and Wales to create a number of "superforces" is due to be presented to the home secretary, Charles Clarke. Sir Ronnie Flanagan, the head of Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, has just submitted a confidential interim report to Mr Clarke. If changes are accepted, it could lead to a major reorganisation of the service.Some argue that sufficient measures are already in place for effective co-operation. A spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers maintained that most senior officers advocated a "wait and see" approach rather than any hasty reaction to the terrorist threat.Tony Bunyan of Statewatch, which monitors police and security matters in Europe, said the police essentially had three functions with regard to terrorist attacks. "The first is to try to stop it, which is the job of MI5 with the help of MI6 and some of the foot-soldiers from the special branch," said Mr Bunyan. "The second is the response to an emergency and that has worked on both occasions (July 7 and 21) rather well. They did what they had to do and they did it well. The third function is investigating."As a result of this, there would, he believed, now be a much larger special branch with particular emphasis on trying to recruit Muslims. The Met would not disclose the current strength of the special branch but it had risen nationally from 1,638 in 1978 to 4,247 by 2003.In terms of officers on the streets, Mr Bunyan said that previous experience with the IRA suggested there was a short-term increase in the visibility of officers, followed by a gradual tailing off if attacks petered out.He said it was important there was not a knee-jerk response in terms of a vast increase in surveillance and identification requirements."Let us not go along with the politics of fear," he said. "Let us not have the introduction of a surveillance society. We are heading down a very dangerous road."