She was surly. She was rude. She shed a few tears and walked off without warning.Such behaviour may not be unusual for a 14-year-old, but it is uncommon at the Old Bailey - and compelling when the teenager in question is the key prosecution witness in the Damilola Taylor murder trial. Yesterday, during a relentlessly hostile cross-examination of her evidence, the girl turned on Courtenay Griffiths QC and accused him of trying to make her "look bad". Though she asked several times to go home, the teenager was defiant in denying claims she lied when saying she had seen four youths attack Damilola with a broken beer bottle. "Do you know what? I haven't got the time for you," she said, glaring at Mr Griffiths. "For one, I'm not a liar. For two you're trying to wind me up. Well you've got there. Are you happy now that you've wound me up? "You have wound me up, do you like it? You don't like it when I ask you questions." When Mr Justice Hooper told the teenager Mr Griffiths could not answer back, she calmed down, but not for long. Asked if another piece of her evidence had been a figment of her imagination, she replied: "It wasn't my imagination, it's your fucking imagination. I want to go home now - I'm not playing with this man." The day began with Mr Griffiths pressing the girl about her account of events on the day in November 2000 on which the four youths are accused of murdering Damilola in Peckham, south London. They have also been accused jointly of manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The teenagers, one aged 14, two brothers aged 16, and one aged 17, plead not guilty. The 14-year-old girl is the only person to have told police that she witnessed the attack. Mr Griffiths asked her why she had not run to Damilola's aid. "I just thought that he was getting robbed," she told the court. "It's nothing new, getting robbed. It's no big thing." Had she not seen a little boy staggering towards the stairs where he was found, asked Mr Griffiths. "No," she said firmly. She snapped minutes later when the QC asked her how long it had taken her to walk from Peckham to her father's house. She huffed when asked to look at photos of the area. "You know what?" she said suddenly. "I'm going home." Stomping out of the witness box, the girl brushed past officials and out of the room. When she returned one hour and 40 minutes later, she said she had been upset that Mr Griffiths had referred to the place where her father lived. Within minutes she again asked to go home, irritated by further questions from the QC. "He keeps upsetting me," she said. "He keeps on doing it and he knows that he is doing it." The judge told her: "This is a very important case and the defendants are entitled to ask questions through their barristers. It's my task to ensure that they are fair. Once or twice I have corrected Mr Griffiths - the best thing for you to do is to remain calm." Resting her elbow on the side of the witness box, the girl agreed to continue. Mr Griffiths asked her about her first call to the police, a month after the attack. He claimed she had repeated gossip that she had heard from other people, and details she had picked up from TV bulletins and newspaper reports. "It's not true," the girl said, accusing Mr Griffiths of trying to trip her up. She added: "It's not going to happen." Mr Griffiths read out a transcript of the conversation she had with police, even though the girl had admitted that she had lied about certain details because she was afraid of being implicated in the crime. Wiping away tears, the girl was asked if she wanted to stay in court as the jury heard recordings of her police interviews. "No," she said. "I want to go home." The trial continues.