A man being questioned in relation to a stabbing attack that killed two children and seriously injured a baby was released today.The man, 39, believed to be the children's father, will face no further action in relation to the deaths, Scotland Yard said.He has been bailed to return to a police station at a later date in relation to another matter, details of which police would not release.A six-month-old girl remains in a "critical but stable" condition today after she was operated on by surgeons last night. Her five-year-old brother and a four-year-old sister died in hospital on Friday after being found injured at their home in Carshalton, Surrey.A 35-year-old woman, believed to be the children's mother, remains under arrest in hospital, where she is being treated for minor injuries.Post-mortem examinations on the two victims are expected to be carried out early next week.Officers were called to the house at 10.30pm on Friday night.Neighbours described how paramedics tried to resuscitate a "tiny bundle" at the scene. Another 'limp little body' was brought out draped in a blood-soaked sheet.The two children were pronounced dead at St Helier Hospital in Carshalton shortly before midnight. Doctors battled through the night to save a baby girl, who was transferred to St Thomas' Hospital, in central London, where her condition was said to be stable.The children's parents were renting the detached two-storey house and had lived there for less than a year. A neighbour, Jon Bailey, 22, said: "I saw a child being carried out in a white sheet. The sheet was practically all red - completely soaked in blood." He added: "The children's mum was just standing there. Until I saw the handcuffs on her, I thought that she was just a concerned mum."Pam Thomas, 68, said paramedics brought out the baby first, followed by another bundle that looked "lifeless and limp". 'Then they brought out a bigger one in a white blanket and they had oxygen and they were pumping its chest.'Half-an-hour later they brought out "this tall, well-presented man and sat him inside a police van. He wasn't in handcuffs and was on his mobile phone for three or four minutes. Then he had an argument with the police and they put him in a cage in the back of the van."Carol Bradley, 60, said there were around 12 police cars at the scene. "I saw the children being carried out but did not realise how bad it was. The children were so cute; they were always in the garden riding on their bikes."Their mother didn't come out of the house very much. I believe her husband had only just got back from work on Friday. He worked long hours. I used to ask the children where their dad was and they always said 'in his shop'."Last night the house was still taped off as police conducted a forensic examination. Six vases of flowers could be seen on the windowsill of one of the bedrooms, while downstairs a cuddly toy lion was left slumped on the windowsill. The two children were believed to have been pupils at the nearby All Saints Church of England primary school.A police spokesman said the two children were certified dead at 11.30pm. 