Crime across Britain is not out of control. We are not, as Conservative leader David Cameron suggested last week, descending into anarchy. Most of Britain's streets are safe. But that is not the public perception. People live in fear of crime and that anxiety has a corrosive effect. The more people are afraid to go out, the more public space is surrendered to the lawless minority.The shooting of 11-year-old Rhys Jones was a single savage act, but it intimidated people far beyond the Liverpool estate where the murder happened. The cold-blooded targeting of a child, the fear of reprisal that stopped witnesses from coming forward and the grotesque parade of masked youths flaunting their weapons in videos posted on the internet all seemed to go beyond ordinary crime. It felt like juvenile terrorism.And yet the average Briton is still extremely unlikely ever to be shot. Guns were used in 61 murders in England and Wales last year, 12 more than the previous year, but down from the 2001 peak of 95. All firearm offences fell by 13 per cent last year, according to the Home Office. Gun crime is concentrated in small, poor areas. Six youths have lost their lives in shootings in London this year, but many incidents were a few streets apart.Yet you do not need to live on a lawless estate to find the existence of such ghettos disturbing. It is natural to see pockets of particularly intense criminality as a sign that police are not in control and that things in general are getting worse. When people were asked by the Home Office if they thought crime in their area had risen in the last two years, 41 per cent said it had. When asked if they thought crime was up in the country as a whole, that figure rose to 65 per cent. The same statistics show that people most likely to fear crime come from 'hard-pressed' and 'urban prosperous' areas.In many British cities, extreme poverty and 'gentrification' rub uneasily alongside one another. The urban middle classes do not see many guns, but they witness the symptoms of social decay - the low-level disturbance that has come to be called antisocial behaviour.There is much moral panic around the spectre of hooded teens on street corners. But there is also a justified concern that gangsterism exerts a cultural influence on boys who lack education, positive role models and long-term ambitions. Not every aggressive teenager is a gangster, but every petty act of vandalism and snarling hostility carries the whiff of real violence. Guns might be confined to a few postcodes, but the perceived glamour of criminality - and the fear of it - is not.Changing a youth culture is a complex project. Thankfully, there seems to be an emerging realisation of that fact and a retreat by politicians from the rhetoric of 'toughness' on crime. Gordon Brown's government has so far resisted the temptation to use the blunt instrument of national legislation to intervene in communities where locally tailored, grass-roots solutions are required. There are enough laws.There are plenty of instruments such as antisocial behaviour orders, acceptable behaviour contracts and parenting orders by which the state has tried, and generally failed, to glue broken families and communities back together. The prisons are full. Tougher sentencing does not deter young thugs. They offend not after careful cost-benefit analysis of the risk of getting caught, but for the thrill of it. Such stubborn criminality is a tear in the social fabric. It cannot be sewn up remotely from Westminster.The state cannot order civil society back into being, but it can facilitate the process. A first step is to recognise fear of crime is not irrational just because recorded crime is down. It is a reasonable response by a public feeling remote from the police. Opinion polls consistently show people would like to see more uniformed officers on the beat. This has traditionally been rejected as inefficient. Beat bobbies are expensive and do not catch many villains. But reassurance is not a secondary function of policing. It is essential if people are to feel that public space belongs to them.Meanwhile, crime detection targets and performance-related pay have distorted police priorities. They deter officers from responding to calls if there is little chance of an arrest. Police need to be relieved of the need to book as many people as possible, whatever the offence. They must be made more responsive to the needs of their local community. Pressure to meet quotas leaves little room for the sort of social interaction and case-by-case discretion on which trust is built.The murder of Rhys Jones was shocking, but the 'wall of silence' holding back the investigation is more profoundly depressing. It proves gangs have more authority on some streets than the police. Those streets must be reclaimed for the law-abiding majority. Statistics might show that crime has fallen, but that is a hollow victory when fear is rife. A society where people only feel truly safe behind closed doors might not be in a state of anarchy, but nor is it particularly happy or free.