The father of the murdered American artist Margaret Muller spoke yesterday of his anguish at the loss of his daughter and described her dreams of becoming a great painter.Erich Muller, 61, recalled the joy of seeing his talented child graduate from the Slade School of Fine Art in London two years ago and the pride with which he had watched her continue to pursue her ambitions. Police yesterday issued an e-fit of one of two men seen sprinting from Victoria Park in east London around the time Ms Muller was stabbed in the neck and back as she was jogging. Her body was found at 8.30am last Monday after other joggers and cyclists heard her screams. Describing a family visit to London for her graduation in 2001, Mr Muller said: "She was vibrant, enthusiastic and alive with joy, together with a sense of accomplishment at having been able to create fine art. "Her life revolved around the refining of her artistic ability and her desire to create great paintings. She was willing to endure not being with her family for the sake of the artistic community that existed here in London." Speaking slowly in an attempt to stop his voice breaking with emotion, he continued: "When we came to see Margaret this time, there was no joy in the reunion. Instead, there was the pain, grief, anguish and sorrow of seeing our beloved daughter lying in a mortuary." Police want to talk to two men of Mediterranean appearance who were noticed by a passerby because they were running at great speed until they encountered him and then seemed to check their pace. Police have also urged a man seen jogging through the park that morning alongside a woman in a green fleece top and black leggings similar to Ms Muller's to contact them. Mr Muller, an engineer from Falls Church, near Washington DC, urged people to "search their hearts and minds" to remember whether they had seen anyone acting suspiciously at the time of his daughter's death. Mr Muller, accompanied by his elder daughter, Theresia, 31, had earlier visited the murder scene. Ms Muller's mother, Eileen, was understood to have been too upset to go to the park or the press conference. The pair spent 10 minutes looking through tributes of flowers and reading messages of sympathy. Theresia, an accountant, paid tribute to her sister's "enormous reservoir of talent" and said she had been just beginning to realise her great potential as an artist. "My sister's violent and tragic death has been devastating to me and has left a deep void in my life along with an enormous sense of sorrow, but with a growing sense of anger at what has transpired and a desire for justice to be served." Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, who is leading the investigation, said the murder was increasingly looking like a random attack. "I believe that we are searching for a stranger, a person unknown to her. "She was a victim not because she knew someone but because someone was waiting for anyone who fitted their individual profile to attack that day. "There is a strong possibility that whoever this is has made approaches before but not carried out such a brutal attack."