Françoise Villement, Gabriel's mother:"How to carry on, to live and survive after you have lost your murdered child in such inhuman conditions."He died suffering in such a way; I could never forget what was done to him. This barbaric act is indescribable and inexcusable. No human being deserves such a death. To die for so little gain does not make any sense to anybody."My son Gabriel wanted to live. He loved life and everything it had to offer. Even from a very young age he was keen to embrace his surroundings and very open to the world and its culture."Gabriel was a sociable boy who had been recognised by his teachers. He was my pride and joy. He was kind and sensitive, worrying and concerned for the whole family."He was an everyday happiness. He wanted to see the people around him happy and he contributed to this with his love for life, devotion and kindness. He was very caring to his baby sister when she was born and throughout their childhood and teenage years they were very close and were always together. There was never a forgotten birthday or Christmas. He was just as caring when his younger brother was born."Before attending college, Gabriel knew what his future profession would be. He wanted to become a biochemist. It was very easy for him to study and succeed in this field, because he loved it so much. His teachers loved him for his natural talent and ability. All he wanted to do was become a biochemist. It was his life."At home he was passionate about music. Indochine was his favourite group. He went to all their concerts and his walls were covered in their posters and signed memorabilia. His other passions were computers and tennis. On the eve of his death he even went to Wimbledon to try and watch a game."He volunteered his spare time to look after children during the holiday period, similar to a summer camp. He was also the treasurer of his association at engineering college. He always promoted that you could have fun without taking drugs or drinking alcohol."Although he was only 23 years old, he was very responsible as well as ambitious, without being pretentious. Gabriel had his own problems but he was always there for his friends. He had a very generous nature and would always help people if he could."Gabriel was aware that we, his parents, struggled to finance his studies and contributed when he could, by working during the holidays, washing up in a hospital and giving private tuition to students who were struggling with their studies. He tried not to burden us financially and he was never demanding."My relationship with my son was marvellous and we spoke to each other regularly. He would talk about his studies, his marks, as well as his disappointments and his love of life. We would talk about everything and there was nothing taboo. I was, I am and always will be very proud of my son who was a talented and exceptional human being with a pure and gentle soul. He had respect for everybody in society, irrespective of who they were."Whenever he was away, his younger brother and sister and I would miss him terribly and we could not wait for him to come home in the holidays. His brother and sister adored him and would hang on his every word."I cannot emphasise enough how much he loved life. Whilst studying, he had travelled around the world and was proud to be in the capital of a European country. He was thrilled to have been admitted to the prestigious Imperial College and to make his presentation in English at the end of his studies. He worked very long hours to complete his studies and report his findings. His professors were very proud of him and his work. He wanted to become a researcher with the aim of bettering the life of future generations, by advanced molecular studies with a view to eradicate diseases."Today he has been savagely killed. This very intelligent human being has been killed to satisfy a very destructive human need. For me, only the devil is capable of doing this."My life stopped on the 29 June 2008. I feel battered and bruised as a mother, forever scarred. I can no longer live an ordinary life. Nothing can make me forget the gratuitous torture inflicted upon my loving son. My daughter and younger son's lives have been shattered forever. Our beloved has been snatched from us for the rest of our lives. I can no longer make sense of my life."Gabriel, when I go into your bedroom and see your clothes, look at your study papers and all the things that you grew up with, I cry out to you from the bottom of my heart. 'You should still be here, but you are not.'"I wait for your return every day. I cannot believe that I will never see you again. My heart suffers from the deepest wound from which it will never recover."Olivier Ferez, Gabriel's father:"Now this is my first opportunity as the father of the victim in these proceedings to let people know how I feel."I am finding myself for the first time in my life sitting in a criminal court and I have found it very difficult to just listen. The language barrier of course has reinforced my feeling of isolation. My wish to understand what is incomprehensible has led to a feeling of immense weariness, added to many months of waiting, pain, despair, anxiety, and disillusions about many things, including our societies and the worse they give us to experience with this trial."A story like ours destroys you very rapidly on all levels, it destroys the family, psychologically and financially, and it is a drama at all levels. This tragedy has given me to feel disappointment, revolt, bitterness, but rather than complain, I am handing this to you now."It has taken immense strength for me not to collapse and my personal balance remains fragile. I do not know what my future can be without my son. Assessing my pain today and telling you how this drama has affected me is impossible."To perhaps illustrate the pain I felt then and still feel today, let me quote some lines by a British poet you all know here (I have extracted the third verse to convey the impact of its words):Funeral bluesStop all the clocks, cut off the telephone,Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone,Silence the pianos and with muffled drumBring out the coffin, let the mourners come.Let airplanes circle moaning overheadScribbling on the sky the message He Is Dead,Put crepe bows round the white necks of the public doves,Let the traffic policemen wear black cotton gloves.The stars are not wanted now; put out every one;Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun,Pour away the ocean and sweep up the woods;For nothing now can ever come to any good."I would like us to prove Auden wrong in this last line, and I am certain Gabriel would agree."I can no longer stand hearing people complain about trivial problems in a supermarket queue, for instance. I might also tell you that every morning on my way to work, I cry, always at the same hour. I no longer know how to answer people when they ask how many children I have."I might tell you that I do not sleep at night and I fill it with the sound of the radio to occupy my mind and stop thinking. I might tell you that I feel ashamed of laughing now. I might tell you that I look elsewhere whenever I come across the sight of a wedding, of other people's happiness because the display of their joy is like so many stab wounds to my heart."This is now what my daily life is like, and that of Helene and Amaury, my two other children, Gabriel's sister and brother. Their big brother is no longer here to love them and protect them. We will remain forever inconsolable and the weight of our tears and suffering has broken our lives. No child, no individual should have to put up with such barbarity."I had come to this hearing to understand why. To hear them tell me the truth, so that Helene, Amaury and myself might try to rebuild our lives, if ever that was possible. You have denied us even this. You have taken Gabriel from us and taken away the little hope we had. I was expecting a meeting with you during this trial, and you have shown yourselves to be cowards even towards each other in your defence and explanations. You feel no remorse, no regret ... your indifference; your diffidence even towards us is no more than contempt."I would love to talk for hours about my Gabriel, who, ever since he was a child never ceased to respect the deepest human values. It had not been all that easy for him, in this poor short life of his, shortened by your ignominy. But through hard work, courage, perseverance, respect of others and of the rules of the community, he was making his way in the world, not without difficulty but with his qualities. His life was an example for all. I wish you had had access to these values, or at least one of them, for yourselves and this trial: courage."My conclusion is this, our two names, Olivier and Gabriel, side by side, respectively a symbol of Peace, Messenger from the Sky ..."