As chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA), I was alarmed by William Hague's dramatic u-turn on the Macpherson report into the death of Stephen Lawrence, now claiming it to have damaged police morale and prevented police from effective use of stop and search powers, thus causing a rise in street crime.It is unhelpful to suggest that a fall in stop and search has been directly responsible for a rise in street crime. Pre-Macpherson, the majority of stop and searches did not lead to an arrest, and many that did were for minor offences. Post-Macpherson, the use of stop and search is being used in a much more sensitive and focused way.Police are much more concerned with the quality of stop and search, rather than the quantity. Carrying out 100 random stops and searches is pointless. Carrying out 10 that are carefully targeted and result in high-quality arrests is much more meaningful. The use of this power in this way will also find support from the community, as will the abandonment of the disproportionate stopping and searching of black and Asian people. It is criminal intent and not the colour of your skin that should interest the patrolling police officer.On crime, the biggest concern for Londoners as identified in the Met's public attitude survey is burglary. The Met has worked hard to tackle this deplorable crime with a good deal of success. Burglaries are down more than 9% this year. Figures this low haven't been seen since 1979. Similarly, the Met has had some good results in its big push against crimes involving class A drugs. In the past few weeks, raids across London have produced 323 arrests and large seizures of drugs, guns and stolen property. In terms of so-called "volume crime", the area which is currently causing most concern is street robbery, particularly the number of robberies involving young people and mobile phones. This is a relatively new phenomenon and shows how the police can face sudden new pressures on time and resources. Tackling street crime is not a matter merely for police. There are many other factors involved which we, as a community, need to think about and work towards solving. One way of deterring street robberies is to divert youngsters away from crime and into other activities which will help them lead productive lives, achieving their full potential. Truancy, bullying and the connection between school exclusions and crime - all need to be looked at. But we are still facing huge problems. In fact, the Metropolitan Police is facing its worst crisis in its 170-year history. We need about 3,000 more police officers to police London effectively, in order to ensure that estates like the one in Peckham where Damilola Taylor was so tragically killed are regularly patrolled on foot by police officers who know their beats and know who lives there. The MPA has just approved a budget recommending an 11.6% increase to enable effective policing of London. The increase would result in a budget of £2,056m, £214m more than last year. If approved by the mayor and the Greater London Assembly, this would allow for the recruitment of an additional 1,050 urgently needed Metropolitan Police officers and a better pay deal for police civilian staff. By the end of this year we will have vacancies for 1,000 civilian support staff in the Met - that is nearly 7.5% of the total civilian strength. This acute shortage means that about 250 police officers who should be out patrolling our neighbourhoods and our streets, are sitting behind desks carrying out critical support staff functions. We need to recognise the valuable role carried out by civilian staff and reward them accordingly. The mayor has already declared his desire to pay for these officers and boost civilian pay out of local taxes. The lack of affordable housing is another area of major concern to potential new police recruits. It was for this reason, to stem the exodus of police officers due to a shortage of reasonably-priced accommodation, that the MPA placed a moratorium on the sale of police houses while we review the policy to dispose of the housing stock. In the past month or so there has been a slight upturn in recruitment. It is too early to say whether this rise in numbers will be sustained. We as a police authority, the commissioner and the mayor, are doing all we can to ensure it is. If you compare London with New York, a good example because the population sizes, crime, violence and disorder problems are similar, New Yorkers benefit from 40,000 police officers; the Met is down to 25,346. But the striking difference between policing in New York and London is terrorism. We are once again under very real threat of terrorist violence, this time from dissident Irish republican groups. That is why the commissioner talks of another 3,000 police officers needed to police London. If New York can have a police service of a size to tackle crime and disorder confidently then why can't London? comment@theguardian.com