A boy convicted of having unlawful sex with a consenting girl when they were both 15 won permission yesterday to launch a high court challenge to a law he claims discriminates against males.The teenager, E, from the Llandudno area, who cannot be named for legal reasons, will ask the court to declare the 1956 Sexual Offences Act incompatible with the European convention on human rights. His counsel, Gareth Roberts, argued at the high court in London yesterday that it was unfair and discriminatory that when a boy and a girl under 16 had consensual sex "one becomes a victim and the other a criminal". Lord Justice Maurice Kay, sitting with Mr Justice Moses, ruled that the challenge should go to a full hearing, saying: "I take the view there is at least an arguable possibility of incompatibility between the Sexual Offences Act and articles 14 and eight of the convention." Article 14 prohibits discrimination and article eight protects the right to privacy. The judge said the courts could declare the act incompatible with the convention, but would not be able to quash the conviction by Llandudno magistrates last August - although E might be able to apply for a pardon. The Sexual Offences Act 2003, which comes into force today, abolishes the discrimination between males and females for many sexual offences including the new offence of "sexual activity between minors". There were attempts to have the offence removed from the bill during its passage through parliament, with critics saying it would criminalise normal teenage behaviour. But the government said it should remain, to tackle behaviour that was exploitative or coercive even though it may have been consensual. Guidance has been issued to prosecutors that prosecutions for sexual activity between under-16s is unlikely to be in the public interest, except where there is abuse - for example, a 15-year-old boy targeting a 12-year-old girl with predatory behaviour. Prosecutions where boy and girl are the same age are unusual. The Crown Prosecution Service said prosecutions were brought only where there was evidence that the relationship was "abusive or exploitative". Lord Justice Kay said there was no doubt that E, as a 15-year-old, had unlawful sexual intercourse with a 15-year-old girl in December 2002. The following day E was interviewed about an allegation of rape, but the girl denied that rape had taken place. There was medical evidence that there had been penetrative sex and E was convicted in August 2003. A 12-month supervision order was imposed. Lord Justice Kay said the magistrates had refused to state a case for the high court to consider the human rights issue. He ordered them to do so, even though the practical consequences for E, if he succeeds in his challenge, "may be extremely limited". He said: "I would grant permission so that this important point may properly be considered, once the magistrates have stated a case." Mr Justice Moses agreed. Legal changesThe most radical reform of sex offences for more than 100 years takes effect today: · End to offences of buggery and indecency between men · Higher standard of proof required to show that alleged rape victim consented to sex · New offence of grooming a child with the intention of committing a sexual offence · Closure of loophole that let men claim sex with under-13s was consensual · New offences designed to tackle inappropriate sexual behaviour with children · Incest offences to cover foster and adoptive parents and live-in partners · New offence concerning sexual acts in public toilets · New offence of trafficking people for sexual exploitation · Definition of rape to include penetration of mouth or anus by the penis