A millionaire philanthropist who had been pulled over for speeding drove off with a police officer hanging from his driver’s window and fearing for his life, a court has heard. Sir Harry Djanogly was initially stopped after police saw his silver Jaguar XK speeding at up to 70mph on the Westway dual carriageway in west London last year.The 77-year-old, who denies dangerous driving and one count of common assault, told the police that his wife had a hospital appointment. “I have a medical emergency, my wife is having chest pains and struggling to breathe,” he said, adding: “I’m not stopping, you can follow me if you like.”The police caught up with him again at traffic lights and one of them, Sgt Robert McDonald, approached the driver’s door and rested his arm on the window.Djanogly repeated that he was not going to stop, at which point the officer told him he was under arrest for failing to stop for a constable, Isleworth crown court heard on Tuesday.He then heard Djanogly revving his engine and grabbed the steering wheel to avoid being run over. The court was told that Djanogly refused to stop and that McDonald then lifted his legs off the ground to avoid being dragged under the wheels. He was dragged for 50 metres before his weight on the steering wheel pulled the car to the right and its driver braked.“I was originally being dragged backwards then pulled into a forwards position, like a water skiing position,” McDonald told the court. “I feared for my life, I know that sounds melodramatic, but I feared for my life – had I been pulled forwards by the vehicle and under. “I ended up alongside the vehicle before being dragged with my feet behind me. I was aware of this overwhelming thought that if I fall under this vehicle, I’m dead.”McDonald was said to have skinned both knees and suffered substantial swelling and stiffness.Djanogly said the movement of the car had been accidental and denied revving the engine. Djanogly was put in handcuffs when the vehicle came to halt, and was obstructive when he was told to get out of the vehicle, according to McDonald.After her husband was arrested, an ambulance was called for Lady Carol Ann Djanogly. The ambulance crew noted that while she had a chest and heart condition, she was not suffering a medical emergency at the time of the incident.Djanogly, who gave an address at Pall Mall, central London, denies any wrongdoing, claiming the officer had been aggressive to him and was shouting. The trial continues.