John FowlerLived at Elderden Farm where the Dixons were held. He hired the lorry used in the robbery, the prosecution said. The farm is said to have been used to keep vehicles involved in the raid and the money was allegedly divided up there. Mr Fowler was also said to have moved cages used to store the money by taking them to a more isolated farm called Friningham for later destruction.Emir Hysenaj Said to be the inside man. He started work at the depot two months before the raid. The Albanian allegedly provided the layout of the depot and made a secret video of the inside.Lea RushaHe lived a few miles south of the Securitas depot and was said to be "at the heart" of the conspiracies. "He was central to their planning and played a significant part in some of the most important preparations, including the masterminding of a reconnaissance of the Dixons' home address," said Sir John Nutting, QC, prosecuting.He was linked to two findings of money. One in Ashford, Kent involved £1.37m. The second was a lock-up garage at Southborough, Kent, where £8.6m was found. Police also recovered an outfit and weapon used in the robbery. At his house, they allegedly found plans of the depot and colour coding used to wrap various denominations of notes. "He was surely one of the robbers and may well have been one of the kidnappers," said Sir John.Stuart RoyleFowler's business partner and said to be central to the plot. He is accused of assisting with vehicles and trying to discover where the Dixons lived. "He may have been one of the kidnappers, was probably one of the robbers and was certainly present at Elderden Farm in the aftermath of the robbery when the cash was divided up," said Sir John.Jetmir BucpapaLinked to fellow Albanian Mr Hysenaj and said to have played a "key role". He may have been one of the kidnappers and was probably one of the robbers, the prosecution argued. He was linked to the £1.3 million Ashford find, said Sir John.Roger CouttsHis DNA was allegedly found on nine out of 11 cable ties used to handcuff employees at the depot. He is also said to have strong links to premises in Welling, Kent, where £9.7m was recovered.Michelle HoggIs said to have admitted her role in making disguises for four men at Hair Hectik in south London where she worked. But she denied knowing what they would be used for. She said she was too frightened to name them.Keith BorerHe is alleged to have helped change the identity of a red LDV van used in the kidnapping of Mrs Dixon and her child.The case continues.