Another trial has been added to the inglorious list of complex fraud cases that have collapsed, been abandoned or only reached a verdict at extraordinary cost. This week's collapse of the London Underground Jubilee line trial, which had run for 21 months at a cost of £60m, still had months of evidence to come but had become an embarrassment to senior court administrators. It was also in danger of running out of jurors. The number was down to 10. Delay and interruptions were caused by jurors, defendants and lawyers falling ill or becoming fathers. The six defendants were formally cleared by the judge while the attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, was ordering an inquiry into the handling of the case. Anticipating the collapse of the trial, the lord chief justice announced new procedures designed to apply stricter management of complex fraud cases to save court time, reduce the stress on defendants, and ensure juries do not lose track of the evidence. He spoke of his hope that all such trials could be completed within three to six months.But will they? The debate about whether there are better ways of conducting complex fraud than with a jury is reopened. Procrastination and delay are still as familiar to today's court administrators as in Dickens's day. The heart of the problem is the legal profession. They will unite in their wish to continue with juries - and longer hearings - quoting Lord Devlin ("what makes juries worthwhile is that they see things differently from judges") and EP Thompson (the jury sits in judgment of the accused and the system). But do they? The jury was only present for 17% of the Jubilee line hearings as lawyers argued over what could be shown to them. After the fiasco of earlier complex trials - Blue Arrow, Guinness, Maxwell - prosecutors drew up simpler charges with smaller groups of defendants. But trials remained drawn out or, just as seriously, became so narrowly focused juries failed to see the full picture of criminality. There are other options. Lord Justice Auld in his review of the criminal courts in 2000 listed four of them: specialist juries; trial by judge alone; trial by a panel of judges; or by a tribunal of judges with two expert assessors. This last was proposed by the Roskill committee in 1986 for exceptional cases: perhaps 12 out of 5,000 fraud charges at that time. A version of it was included in the 2003 Criminal Justice Act but has not been implemented because of lawyers' opposition. Yet one attractive element would be the inquisitorial approach that would be introduced. Perhaps its time has come.