A murder investigation has begun after the badly burnt remains of a teenage girl were found in a field in Wishaw near Glasgow, nearly a day after her family last saw her alive.The parents of Zoe Nelson, 17, a college student, said they were "absolutely heartbroken" after her body was discovered on Sunday afternoon at a spot known locally as Monkey hill, which is being searched by police.Detectives are trying to reconstruct Zoe Nelson's last movements. She was last seen by her mother leaving the family home at Newmains, North Lanarkshire, at around 5pm on Saturday. Locals reported seeing a fire on Monkey hill at about 11.20pm. Her body was discovered at around 4.20pm on Sunday, severely burnt. Police had to use her tattoos to confirm her identity.In a statement issued by Strathclyde police today, her mother, Marieann, said: "We are absolutely heartbroken at the death of Zoe and devastated by the way in which she died."Zoe was a popular girl and a typical 17-year-old who had plenty of friends and was well-known in the area. She would have been celebrating her 18th birthday in a couple of months and we miss her terribly."Me, her stepdad, Daniel, and two sisters, Laura Ann and Ashley, are shattered by what has happened."The police have urged local people to come forward if they saw Nelson, who was a vehicle body repair student at Motherwell College, during the 24 hours before her death, and have already interviewed her boyfriend, who lives nearby.Detective Superintendent Derek Roberts, head of Strathclyde's major investigation team, said the period between her leaving home and being found the following day was "very important" to detectives."We are very interested if anyone saw any suspicious vehicles in this area, or any suspicious people. Please report it. If dog walkers have seen anything, it might not have seemed important then but it is very important that they now come forward and assist with our investigation."Roberts added: "This is a terrible incident, and a tragedy for the family and a young life cut short. We will not rest until this person has been caught: we will use as many officers as possible, we will work as many hours as possible, we will find this person."Zoe was described as 5ft 6in tall, of heavy build, with collar-length brown hair. She had left home wearing grey tracksuit bottoms, a white long-sleeved T-shirt and black Nike trainers.Hugh Logan, principal of Motherwell College, said: "Everyone at Motherwell College is shocked to hear this dreadful news. Zoe was a very popular student. Our thoughts are with her family and friends."Residents living close to the scene in Wishaw were shocked by the discovery. One neighbour, who asked not to be named, said: "We are horrified. This is usually a quiet, nice area. This is a nightmare, a horrific nightmare."