Lancashire police are offering a £30,000 reward to help solve the murder of a teenager years after she disappeared in Blackpool, promising to pay out to anyone who can help them find not just her killer but her body.Paige Chivers, a 15-year-old from the seaside town, vanished on 23 August 2007 after a row at her family home in Bispham. Her body has never been found. The teenager had never left Blackpool alone before and did not own a passport when she disappeared, Lancashire police said at a press briefing in Preston on Tuesday.Detectives say they have questioned 3,000 people about her disappearance but are still none the wiser about where she had ended up.Twenty detectives are currently working on the case, working on the assumption that she is dead.Andy Webster, the detective leading the investigation, said: “It is incredible to think that with all the technology and social media and traces we leave in our daily lives that there are none that have led us to Paige. After exhaustive inquiry the only natural conclusion we have sadly reached is that Paige is dead. I am appealing today for information which will help us find her body as we believe she has been murdered and her body disposed of.”The reward for information which leads to a conviction or the recover of Paige’s body is provided by money confiscated from criminals through the Proceeds of Crime Act (POCA). In 2009 a £12,000 reward did not result in any significant evidence - Lancaster Constabulary hopes the increased sum will incentivise witnesses.Appealing to the girl’s friends on Tuesday, Webster said he “firmly believed” the answers to her murder lay in her Blackpool community: “Bearing in mind Paige was 15 when she went missing, she would be 22 now. I think her friends and that cohort will be older, they will be wiser and more confident. It would be time for them to come forward to us.”  Paige Chivers, 15, disappeared from her home in Blackpool in August 2007 and hasn't been seen since. Police are offering a £30,000 reward to anyone who can lead them to her killer - or her body Photograph: /Lancashire policeFour people have previously been arrested on suspicion of Paige’s murder but all have been released without charge. Police launched a fresh appeal for information about her disappearance in November 2013, alongside the investigation into the murder of Charlene Downes, 14, who disappeared in November 2003. No trace of her has ever been found.Lancashire Constabulary say they have not ruled out a link between the two cases but have never found any evidence to prove a connection. They say the decision to pursue the two investigations concurrently is geographical and based on the girls’ similar ages and backgrounds.Two men went on trial in 2007 in connection with Charlene’s murder but were acquitted. Prosecutors at the time claimed her body was chopped up and had “gone into kebabs” and said Charlene had been the victim of sexual exploitation by older men in Blackpool’s takeaways. Iyad Albattikhi was formally cleared of Charlene’s murder and his co-defendant, Mohammed Reveshi was acquitted of helping to dispose of her body. The accused men were reported to have received compensation for false imprisonment.Webster, who is in charge of both murder investigations, said he was keeping an open mind about the cases being linked to sexual grooming.He said: “I have been asked before about the links between Paige’s and Charlene’s disappearance. We know in terms of their age and lifestyle there are similarities but at present there is no evidential link.” Lancashire Police and Crime Commissioner Clive Grunshaw said: “Geographically, they were both in Blackpool so it makes sense to look at them together. They are similar in terms of the ages and the locations from where they disappeared. The police have not ruled out a link but they have never found any evidence.”Paige Chivers’ father, Frank Chivers, was killed last August at his house in the Layton area of Blackpool. A 44-year-old man, Sean Conlon, was jailed for life in February this year his murder.Frank was found with ahead injury at his house in Walter Robinson Court, Layton, on 11 August 2013 and later died in hospital. Police believe there is no link between the murders of father and daughter.