Police today stepped up patrols around the London school where a 15-year-old boy was stabbed to death yesterday.The move came as the head of the London Academy in Edgware, where Kiyan Prince was murdered yesterday, said the school had raised the issue of tackling the threat posed by knife crime only two weeks ago.Kiyan, a promising footballer who played in the Queens Park Rangers youth team, was attacked following an argument with another black teenager outside the school gates.Detectives are investigating claims he may have been attacked while trying to break up a fight. A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said those claims would form "part of the inquiry", although there was "conflicting information" from witnesses.The murder has sparked renewed concern about knife crime and calls for tougher security in schools. Alan Johnson, the education secretary, told BBC News 24 the incident was a "deep tragedy", adding that measures for "tackling kids carrying knives" were a priority. Kiyan was attacked in front of horrified staff and pupils by a black youth, thought to be 16, who then fled towards nearby flats. BBC News 24 reported that his attacker was of Somali extraction and had a history of violent behaviour.The academy's head, Phil Hearne, said there was "a real issue of knives in the community". "It's our first encounter with knives as a school community ... an amazingly tragic outcome from that," he added. "We were talking with our parent-teachers' association and parents' forum two weeks ago about knives and ... the kind of things we could put into place to ensure the youngsters and staff here were safe." Mr Hearne paid tribute to Kiyan, saying the teenager was "highly regarded" throughout the school "not just for his footballing skills but as an individual"."He has an older sister who is here, and his mum, I believe, is a teacher. They will be absolutely devastated - [they are] a lovely family."The school and local council were today providing counselling to pupils.Teachers found Kiyan covered in blood outside Stamford Court, a block of flats on Kings Drive, close to the school, at 3.35pm yesterday. An ambulance was called, but he died at the Royal London hospital two hours later.Mr Hearne said Kiyan had been about to go on a youth team tour of Germany, and people had compared his talent to that of 17-year-old Theo Walcott, who has just been called into England's World Cup squad."The key thing to successful footballers is not just the skills they actually have, but the attitude," he said. "The one thing that shines through all Kiyan's reports from QPR is his attitude. A lot of young people aspire to be footballers, but unless you have that mental factor, you don't get very far."Joe Gallen, the head of youth at QPR, said Kiyan was "an intelligent, smart, good-looking, young man with a very bright future in the game" and would be "sorely missed". A spokeswoman for the Championship club said the murder had left people "completely shocked". The London mayor, Ken Livingstone, said it was "a senseless killing and a tragic loss of life".Mr Livingstone said he would be writing to the home secretary and the lord chancellor to recommend that anyone found guilty of knife crime "should routinely receive the maximum sentence available". "We need to send a very strong message right across the capital that if you commit a crime using a knife in this city, or you are caught with one in you possession, you will face a very harsh sentence," he added.Brian Coleman, the Conservative London assembly member for Barnet and Camden, called on police "to take immediate action to quell the growing knife crime culture". A Metropolitan police spokesman said knife crime had not previously been a "major issue" in the borough of Barnet, with an average of two knife-related offences per week being committed.He said patrols were being stepped up "in light of the recent tragic event". A youth conference encouraging children to stay away from weapons had been scheduled to take place in Barnet later this month. Mike Frier, the Barnet council leader, warned against turning schools into "fortresses", while the schools minister, Jim Knight, told LBC News 1152 that there should not be a "rush to take measures" because of "one appalling incident".Kiyan's murder came days before a Home Office knife amnesty designed to combat Britain's growing problem with knife crime, and a week after special constable Nisha Patel-Nasri was stabbed to death outside her home in Wembley, north-west London.