When I was offered a problem phone-in show, on Manchester radio station Key 103, I was thrilled. I'd been a jobbing agony aunt for years, and finally, I thought, here was a chance to demonstrate my real skills.I anticipated lots of sad, lonely middle-aged people, cursing themselves for choosing the wrong life path. I knew all about divorce, single parenthood, debt, weight worries, affairs and drink. But while, nearly a year on, the occasional call features one of my specialist subjects, the show has instead become the stopping-place for an increasingly large community of deeply unhappy teenagers. And what unites many of them - both girls and boys - is a compelling desire to harm themselves.Week after week, I get texts, mails, and - more rarely - calls, from adolescents aged between 12 and 18. "I keep cutting myself," they say. "I can't tell anyone, and I don't know how to stop. It seems to help with the pain inside me."I ask them why they can't tell anyone, but often a single text is their only communication. So I can't find out what's going on in their lives, or why they're so desperately unhappy that they're locking themselves in their bedrooms and slashing at their arms and legs with knives.Much is written, currently, about the prevalence of stabbing; questions are being asked as to why teenagers carry knives to harm others. No one asks, though, how many are concealing knives to hurt themelves - and I suspect it's a far greater number.I suggested to one girl that she could tell her Mum. "I did what you said," she wrote the following Sunday. "She's gone mad and taken my knives away and made me promise never to do it again, but I feel like I'm going insane, I need to cut so badly. I can't see how I'm going to get through it."Suicidal thoughts are seldom far away from the self-harmers' letters. And angry, guilty parents who, understandably, rage and extract binding promises, only drive their children further into the darkness.All I can tell them is that self-harm, like any drug, is an addiction. Endorphins are released to block the pain, and briefly, the emotional maelstrom subsides. But not for long - and never properly, until they find longer-term help.For drug users, there are drop-in centres, there are helplines, there are endless celebrity poster-boys and girls talking about Their Hell. For self harmers, there's the Samaritans, there are a few self-help websites, and there was one character who slashed herself in The Line of Beauty. I don't suppose too many teenagers watched the recent adaptation, though. They were probably locked in their rooms, wishing there was somebody they could talk to.I wish there was, too - because even I know that for unhappy, lonely, confused teens, a radio agony aunt may be a friendly voice in the darkness. But that's nowhere near enough.