Police today said they were following "strong lines of inquiry" after the bodies of a mother and her two children were found in a house in Manchester.A murder investigation was launched after officers were called to the home in Thelwall Avenue, Fallowfield, at 7pm yesterday following reports that a woman had been found dead.Inside, Greater Manchester police discovered the bodies of two women and a teenage boy, all with serious head injuries.Police have yet to confirm the identities of the victims, who were named locally as Beverley Samuels, 35, a nurse; her daughter Kesha Wizzart, 18; and her son, Fred, 13.Ms Wizzart, who was thought to have finished her A-levels at Parrs Wood high school, in Didsbury, a few weeks ago, was a promising singer who had appeared on ITV's Young Stars In Their Eyes in 2004."The deaths of these three people are being treated as suspicious and a multiple murder inquiry has been launched," Greater Manchester police said in a statement. It added that the deaths were not thought to be gang-related.Superintendent Paul Savill, who is leading the investigation, said no arrests had been made.He declined to give further details about how the three had been killed."We have strong lines of inquiry but it is critically important we do not get ahead of ourselves," Mr Savill told reporters at a midday press conference.He said police patrols had been stepped up in the area but there was not believed to be any risk to the general pubic.A spokeswoman for Manchester Royal Infirmary, where Ms Samuels worked as a nurse, said she was "very popular" and her colleagues were "devastated" by her death. "Everyone at the trust was shocked and saddened to hear of Beverley's death and our thoughts are with her family," the hospital said in a statement.Ms Samuels had worked in the NHS since 2000, and for the trust since April 2001."She was a very popular member of the team, liked and well respected by her colleagues, who are all devastated by the news," the statement said. "Beverley was a committed and hard-working nurse, who will be sadly missed." As news of her daughter Kesha's death spread, her friends on Facebook said they would miss their "beautiful princess" who was "always smiling, always happy".On her Facebook page, Kesha listed her activities as: "Being a recluse ... when not doing that kesha enjoys playing netball with the guardian angels ... swimming ... thai boxin (in case she needs to open a can of whoop ass!) ... runnin (away from reality) ... badminton ... dancin n singin :)."The family had lived in the area for around 15 years. A local resident, Margaret FitzGerald, said the boy used to play with her grandson."He was in and out of my house. I would give him biscuits and sweets and he was Manchester United mad. I can't believe it. He was such a nice little fellow. He went to a special school and the bus used to pick him up every morning."He played with all the children in the street on his bike. I have been crying all night. It's hard to believe when it happens on your own doorstep. They were a nice family, never any trouble to anyone. They had lived there quite a few years."Police were on duty outside the small mid-terrace, red brick property, which had a tent erected over the doorway by scene-of-crime officers.