The decision to prosecute a young builder for murder for fatally stabbing a teenage burglar who ransacked his mother's home was erroneous, a court heard today.Omari Roberts, 23, was formally found not guilty at Nottingham crown court of the murder of 17-year-old Tyler Juett, whom he found burgling his mother's home in Basford, Nottinghamshire, in March 2009, with a 14-year-old accomplice. Juett died of stab wounds.Roberts, who denied the murder charge, was also charged with attacking Juett's 14-year-old accomplice, who cannot be named for legal reasons. In October the Crown Prosecution Service's lawyers said Roberts had used "excessive and gratuitous force" and he was remanded in custody. But new evidence came to light last month that showed this to be erroneous.The other burglar, who is now 15, suffered two stab wounds to his right knee during an initial confrontation with Roberts in the kitchen of his mother's semi-detached home.He claimed he then fled the house with Roberts in pursuit. Prosecutors said this gave them a realistic chance of a success as it meant Roberts would have had time to call police.But when he was re-interviewed by the police last month, the boy admitted he waited for Juett outside the house.This supported the assertion by Roberts that his struggle with Juett immediately followed a fight with the accomplice, Gregory Dickinson QC, prosecuting, said.The teenage accomplice also told a social worker after the burglary that he did have a knife, despite originally telling the police he was unarmed.He bragged: "I wasn't bothered about killing him [Roberts]. If I had the chance I would have killed him."Jerome Lynch QC, defending, said Juett's accomplice had an Asbo banning him from Basford as well as a string of convictions for violent offences.He said: "The basis on which this case is being dropped at the 11th hour is a matter of public interest. It's clear that the prosecution's case has always been predicated on the reliability of this [boy]. In our submission that was never a realistic approach."They relied on what he was saying, the veracity of what he was saying, and in our submission that was a flawed and erroneous approach."The Crown Prosecution Service decided to drop the charges against Omari Roberts shortly before the case against him was due to open at the crown court today.Roberts's mother, Jacqueline McKenzie-Johnson, had called the decision to prosecute "outrageous".Speaking outside the court, she said: "He looks a little bit more relieved now. It's still a very difficult time. The charges have been dropped and now it's time for us to look at how we're feeling because we've been fighting this for so long."An internet campaign for her son had been set up.Roberts's lawyer, Jonathan Eppley, said after the case that Roberts was put in a position in which he was fighting for his life."He had no option but to defend himself. Everything happened in a split second. He'd just returned to his mum's house for a little bit to eat and found himself in a terrible position," he said.The CPS said the decision to drop the charges was made after it received "significant new information" about the case.It said: "After receiving significant new information last month, the case was reviewed and it was decided there was no longer a realistic prospect of conviction."This information was not available at the time the original decision to prosecute was made."Lynch said the director of public prosecutions (DPP), Keir Starmer, should have been involved in the decision over whether to bring the case to court.He said: "In cases of this kind, the DPP should be involved because then we would have someone to point the finger at."Outside court, he added: "Personally, I think he [the DPP] should apologise to this family. It's tragic."At the time of the murder Chris Juett, Tyler's uncle, said that he wished his nephew had chosen a different path. "The boy was such a talented footballer. God bless him."