The family of an Asian youth battered to death in his cell by a known violent racist yesterday suffered a setback in their battle for a public inquiry into the circumstances leading up to the murder. Zahid Mubarek was murdered at Feltham young offenders institute in March 2000 by a skinhead, Robert Stewart. Yesterday the court of appeal overturned a ruling from a lower court ordering the home secretary to hold a public inquiry into the "systemic failures" which led to the murder. Mr Justice Hooper had found that the right to life guaranteed by European convention on human rights required the Home Office to carry out an independent investigation into the death of the 19-year-old first offender, who was serving three months for a petty theft. Mr Justice Hooper had said the inquiry must be conducted in public, with legal representation for the teenager's family, disclosure to them of relevant documents, and the right to cross-examine witnesses. Yesterday Lord Woolf, Lord Justice Laws and Lord Justice Dyson ruled that a public inquiry was not necessary and there had been no violation of the European convention on human rights article covering the right to life being protected by law. The appeal judges said it had already been established that the prison service was at fault, an inquiry into this had been held and the family invited to be involved, the cause of death had been established by Stewart's conviction for murder and there was no basis for prosecuting any member of the prison service. They said there were no "factual unknowns" which would impede the family from bringing a claim in the civil courts for damages. In its written judgment the court of appeal asked: "What remains to investigate?" After the judgment, Imtiaz Amin, Zahid's uncle, said: "We're devastated. All this effort has just been thrown straight back at us. We've been told to shut up by the court. "[The judgment] is not answering any of the questions we want answers to: Why was Zahid sharing a cell with such a racist individual? How was such a pre-meditated murder allowed to happen?" Imran Khan, the Mubarek's solicitor, said: "This judgment has effectively shut down the true facts of what happened to Zahid ever coming out. That to me is a travesty of justice." The family intend to appeal to the House of Lords. The prison service held an internal inquiry and the commission for racial equality also investigated. The Mubareks say both inquiries were flawed.