It took just over two hours for police to nab the first person to be caught breaking the law by driving while on a mobile phone. At just after 2am yesterday, a 35-year-old woman earned herself the ignoble distinction in Dundee city centre.Although drivers in England and Wales caught using their mobile phone will be given only a firm talking to for the next two months, many Scottish police forces decided against a period of grace. Tayside police bagged the first mobile phone charge yesterday. They did not, though, issue the first fixed penalty notice: the woman was also charged with drink driving and her case has been reported to the procurator fiscal. The first fixed penalty notice may have been issued, instead, by Strathclyde police, Scotland's biggest force, which by yesterday morning had given out two notices. There were no roadblocks set up in Scotland yesterday, but officers on normal duties were told to look for anyone behind the wheel with a mobile under their chin. "We have got the officers out looking for it, but it not the easiest thing to police," said Inspector Brian Shanks, from Grampian police. "When cars are travelling at speed they tend to be past you before you notice it." The no leniency policy adopted by Strathclyde police did not appear to be putting too many people off using their mobiles yesterday morning. The Guardian conducted its own unofficial survey on the main road from the southside of Glasgow into the city centre, and around one in 20 drivers were still making calls. Those waiting at traffic lights seemed the most intent on using their mobiles. "I think a lot of people will get caught out by mistakenly believing they can make calls if the cars is not moving," said Insp Shanks. In the car park at the Braehead shopping centre, his theory was proved right. "I thought you only couldn't use it if you were actually driving, and it was OK at traffic lights," said Frances McConnachie. "I don't use the phone much when I'm driving anyway. It's bad enough dealing with the kids in the back without taking calls from my husband as well." A few cars along, though, and Ian Sneddon admitted to being a serial offender. "I do it all the time and I'll probably still do it," he said. "If you've got it tucked under your chin it's no different to having a conversation with someone in the passenger's seat." Catherine Gourlay was one of the few drivers to own a hands-free set. "It's a company car, so my work fitted it for me," she said. "I think it is dangerous to drive and use the phone without the set. Even with it, I find it difficult to negotiate heavy traffic and talk at the same time so I sometimes switch it off." In Fife, motorists appeared more law abiding than in Glasgow. A spokesman for Fife constabulary said the message was getting through. "Our officers have noticed an awful lot more people parked up beside the road on their phones, so it looks as if they're taking it on board," he said.