Police have launched a controversial stop and search programme around Manchester universities in a bid to reduce crime against students.The plans, which will only be in force for the first three weeks of term, are likely to be welcomed by many as the beginning of term, when thousands of new students descend on the city, has traditionally been accompanied by a dramatic increase in street robberies.However, the move has raised concern amongst civil liberties groups and students alike. Seb Dance, communications officer at the University of Manchester's student union, said: "There has been opposition expressed from various quarters. It is not something we as a union have debated or discussed but some of my colleagues have expressed some concern - there is a worry that police will target ethnic minorities and it will become divisive. It is about achieving a balance of public safety and infringing on rights."Greater Manchester Police (GMP) plan to boost their profile around the campuses of the University of Manchester, Manchester Metropolitan and the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology (Umist), all based on or around the city's Oxford Road, by enacting part of the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994. The act, originally designed to crack down on football related violence, allows uniformed police officers to stop and search anyone without grounds for suspicious behaviour. The searches are specifically designed to curb violent muggings by cracking down on dangerous and offensive weapons, particularly knives and other sharp objects. Section 60 of the act also allows police officers the right to demand the removal of facial coverings, such as scarves and masks, and also to confiscate any prohibited articles, such as drugs.Refusal to remove items of clothing and submit to search can result in arrest and officers may use 'reasonable force' in order to perform searches. A GMP spokesman told the Manchester University's student newspaper, Student Direct, that there was a need for a "certain degree of common sense", emphasising the importance of making citizens aware of the increased risks of crime during the freshers' period. The spokesman underlined that police officers are acting in the interests of students' welfare. Twenty-year-old, Dan Sims, an English language and literature student at Manchester, was recently stopped and searched in the Withington district of the city. Sims told Student Direct how he was "more surprised than anything" when he was approached by an officer as he was previously not aware of the section 60 initative. However, he emphasised that the police officer handled what could be a difficult situation very well. He explained that the officer thoroughly explained the new policy, why it was being used and issued him a record of the search. "I am definitely in favour of the scheme. Manchester has such a high crime rate and anything to reduce this would be beneficial to both students and the whole area in general," said Mr Sims.The stop and search policy is only part of an ongoing GMP initiative designed to tackle street crime called Operation Hawk. Other elements include a higher police presence and the use of bright yellow mobile police vans, specifically targeting school and university areas in order to protect students. Operation Hawk has had a great impact, reducing street crime by 22% in the Greater Manchester area last year, according to police figures. Assistant chief constable David Whatton emphasises that all initiatives, including section 60 powers, are designed to protect the student population, saying: "Starting university is one of the most exciting experiences of a young person's life and [the GMP] want to make sure that all students studying within our area enjoy their time here safely."During the freshers' period police are also holding talks and have teamed up with stars of the Channel 4 TV series, Hollyoaks, to promote safety awareness amongst students.· Additional reporting by Polly Curtis. Student Direct is the University of Manchester's student newspaper.