A drug user who was heavily in debt tortured an elderly woman with a knife for her credit card pin number before beating her to death with her rolling pin, a jury has heard.Matthew Hamlen used a paring knife to torment Georgina Edmonds, 77, jabbing her in the shoulder, abdomen and thighs after walking into her country cottage, the court was told. He then hit her so hard with her marble rolling pin that it shattered into three pieces, the prosecution alleged.Later, Hamlen, a 33-year-old electrician, went to a cash machine and attempted to draw money out with a credit card stolen from Mrs Edmonds, it was claimed.Mrs Edmonds's son, Harry, found his mother, who suffered from osteoporosis, lying in a pool of blood in the kitchen of her home in the Hampshire village of Brambridge, near Eastleigh.When police interviewed Hamlen, he said he had a £100-a-week cocaine habit. He was under pressure to pay drug debts and may have been threatened with violence.Michael Bowes QC, prosecuting, told the jury at Winchester crown court that Mrs Edmonds lived in a cottage in the grounds of her son Harry's home.On 11 January 2008, Harry came home from work and was alarmed to find his mother's cottage in darkness. "The whole place seemed dark and still, and he had a feeling that something was just not right," said Bowes. "He saw his mother's legs lying on the floor of the kitchen," the barrister said. "Her upper body and head were behind the door as he pushed it open. Initially he thought she had fallen. He then saw his mother lying flat on her face, completely still, with a very significant pool of blood coming from her head or face."He saw that her trousers had been pulled down slightly and that on the back of her head there was a significant pinkish dent, as if caused by one huge hit or by several blows in the same place. It was obvious to him that she was dead and that she had been murdered."Bowes told the jury that Mrs Edmonds had suffered about 30 knife wounds. The prosecution claims a paring knife was used to jab the pensioner, "part of escalating violence in order to get information out of her". Each wound was "very deliberate", Bowes said. The knife was also dragged across the victim's throat, leaving a deep gash."The many knife wounds penetrated Georgina Edmonds's skin. Their pattern suggests they had been inflicted with some deliberation rather than a significant degree of force," said Bowes. "Given the theft of her credit card and its unsuccessful use hours later, the inference is she was tortured in order to obtain her pin and then beaten to death."Bowes claimed Hamlen had walked in through an unlocked back door and made his escape via a towpath near the cottage.He said Mrs Edmonds's credit card, mobile phone and handbag were stolen. At 10.38pm on the same day, someone tried unsuccessfully to use her credit card at a cash machine outside Tesco Express in Eastleigh. The person who used the card tried to hide his identity under the hood of a fluorescent jacket. The prosecution alleges this was Hamlen.Hamlen told police he walked in the area where the cottage was. He said he might have gone into the grounds of the cottage because he liked old houses and castles and enjoyed "a nose"."He could not remember climbing over the five bar gate to the drive but said he did do things like that," said Bowes.Hamlen told detectives he had a £100-a-week cocaine habit and admitted he had been under pressure to pay back drugs debts and may have been threatened with violence. Police found that Hamlen was nearly £6,000 in debt in January 2008. Bowes said: "We say the drug habit and debt was highly significant bearing in mind Georgina Edmonds had been tortured for her pin."Bowes told the jury there was a "forensic DNA link to Hamlen" from the rolling pin. Analysis of Hamlen's mobile phone also showed that he was in the area where Mrs Edmonds lived on the day she was killed, the jury heard.Hamlen denies murdering Mrs Edmonds. The trial continues.