A church organist who died after being brutally attacked on his way to midnight mass on Christmas Eve has been described as a "gentle soul".Alan Greaves, 68, from Sheffield, was assaulted just yards from St Saviour's church in High Green, South Yorkshire, where he had also been a lay preacher for a number of years.He was discovered by a member of the public and taken to hospital but died from his injuries on Thursday night. Police are treating his death as murder and said the motive for the attack was currently unclear.Canon Simon Bessant, from St Saviour's church, who worked closely with Mr Greaves and his wife Maureen, a church community worker, said: "He was a good man and this was an evil act."He was a gentle soul. He wasn't foolish – he would have handled the situation as best as anyone would but we don't know what he encountered."Bessant, who was at the church that night, said Greaves's wife was not seeking vengeance but did want justice.He said: "He never arrived, which we thought was strange. Sadly, he was attacked about 250 yards from the church. His family were all at home and the police contacted them at about midnight to say there has been an accident."I spent most of Christmas Day with him and the family. They have a strong faith but that doesn't mean you don't feel the difficulty. It was a hard vigil by his bedside, watching him struggle."His wife wants justice but she doesn't want vengeance. She is not embittered but obviously she wants this person to be caught."This isn't even a bad area. He was walking down the main road opposite the school and park. It isn't like a dark alleyway and there were people around on Christmas Eve."Detective Superintendent Matt Fenwick, of South Yorkshire police, said the motive was unknown and, based on the injuries suffered by Greaves, it was likely that a weapon was used.He said: "At 11pm on Christmas Eve Mr Greaves left his house and walked towards the nearby church where he performs as an organist."Between his house and that location he was subjected to the brutal attack. At 11.15pm a member of the public found Mr Greaves and called the emergency services."He was a family man and the family are devastated about what has taken place. I would like to appeal on their behalf and on my behalf for anyone who might have witnessed any part of this incident or anyone who has information that could assist this investigation to please contact us."The community is said to be appalled by the incident and a number of witnesses have already come forward.