A man who murdered his best friend and drank his blood because he wanted to become a vampire has been found dead in his prison cell.Allan Menzies, 23, of Fauldhouse, West Lothian, was jailed for life in Edinburgh last year for the brutal killing of 21-year-old Thomas McKendrick, who was stabbed 42 times. Menzies, who became known as the vampire killer, told a court that he had been ordered to kill by a character in the film Queen of the Damned, with which he was obsessed and had watched more than 100 times.A spokesman for the Scottish Prison Service confirmed that Menzies had died in custody at Shotts Prison, near Glasgow, but would not comment further. It is understood that Menzies, who was serving a minimum of 18 years, had taken his own life. He was discovered at 7.50am yesterday.During his trial, Menzies had tried to convince the jury that he was mentally ill when he attacked Mr McKendrick, bludgeoning him with a hammer before stabbing him.The high court in Edinburgh had heard how Menzies, who had a vivid fantasy life, had become obsessed with the film Queen of the Damned, and its central character, a vampire called Akasha. On the day of the killing, Menzies had claimed that Mr McKendrick made an insulting remark about the film and the character and he had "snapped," striking Mr McKendrick on the head at least ten times with a hammer before stabbing him. He then drank some of his victim's blood and ate part of his skull before burying the body in a shallow grave. It was several weeks before Mr McKendrick's body was recovered.Menzies said he had been ordered to kill by Akasha, who appeared before him, and promised him immortality. "At the end of the day, I knew I would have to murder somebody anyway, so ... if you did not murder somebody you could not become a vampire," he told the court.But three psychiatrists told the court that Menzies' psychopathic disorder was not a mental illness on which a conviction could be reduced from murder to culpable homicide on the ground of diminished responsibility.The court was told that Menzies had a reputation for enjoying violence and sadism and, as a 14-year-old had been sentenced to three years for stabbing a fellow school pupil.When the jury in the trial returned a unanimous verdict of guilty, the judge, Roderick Macdonald, QC, told Menzies he was an evil, violent and highly dangerous man, not fit to be at liberty. "To bring about his death, you engaged in a savage and merciless attack, involving gratuitous and sustained violence of a most horrific nature."