John Reid is right. The Home Office doesn't do its job. That's why those sceptical of Reid's extraordinary slash-and-burn approach to the department he inherited from Charles Clarke just over two months ago should beware. Don't defend what can no longer be defended. But what Labour needs to give the Home Office is not just a shake-up, but a rethink too.Ten weeks were never enough time to do both these things, especially when the process was largely sealed from the outside world, and was dominated by politicians and officials who had been instrumental in creating the problems they now purport to be solving. There was absolutely no administrative need to get all Reid's three major announcements - on structures, crime and immigration - completed before next week's summer parliamentary recess.The danger, hardly for the first time in the New Labour years, is that what we are witnessing is not decisive action so much as the appearance of decisive action. Just because it was obvious that things could not go on as they were at the Home Office, it does not follow that the alternatives are either clear cut or uncontroversial - let alone that they will work. These truths will return to haunt ministers.Reid should not be underestimated. He brings some of the things that are needed to the table. Unusually among New Labour ministers, he has a strong and informed grasp of history - though it tends, in my view, to make him something of a defeatist. He has an admirable instinct for seeing problems politically. And he has the rare ability, which he sometimes misuses, to take the argument to his opponents in clear terms.But he is weighed down by the fact that he has become, admittedly through Tony Blair's doing rather than his own, the government's reflex solution to domestic departmental crises. Blair has developed the habit of using Reid as the Tories used Ken Clarke, a politician Reid resembles in several ways. The prime minister relies on Reid to get an apparent grip on an issue, but never leaves him in one post long enough to have to take responsibility for the consequences of his own actions. Given Gordon Brown's antipathy towards his fellow Scot, it seems unlikely that Reid will be around to see the results of his Home Office changes either.As a result it is hardly surprising that Reid has come to see ministerial office more in political than in policy terms. Given that the Home Office had come to embody the Labour government's political crisis this spring, and that Blair had staked so much of his declining authority on claiming to be in touch with the popular mood over law and order, it is no surprise either that Reid has responded in the way that comes naturally to him.Reid assured MPs this week that his Home Office changes were not a "year zero" approach. It was a classic example of the old adage: never believe something until it is officially denied. For year zero is exactly what this is. Reid may have gone out of his way to say how much he respects the work of his immediate Labour predecessors as home secretary. But this too was a cynical untruth. It could not conceal his underlying messages to the wider public: that the new man in charge hears what you say and shares your instincts - and that anything that goes wrong in future will be the predecessors' fault, not his.From one perspective, there is perfect reason in all this. You don't need a PhD in political manoeuvring to see why there was great urgency, as perceived from Downing Street, for the successive Home Office crises over prisoners, sentencing and migration to be brought under the quickest and most effective control possible. That is why Reid's mission, in the end, is so overwhelmingly political. What this most Blairite of ministers is doing is attempting to give Blair the space and time to control the timing of his own departure next year.And perhaps he will succeed in doing so. Yet once you take all these highly political factors into account it becomes less and less convincing to see Reid's announcements this month as the coherent policy strategy that he claims it is.Labour has only rarely thought carefully or dynamically about the Home Office. In that sense, Reid deserves praise for at least asking some of these bigger questions, though his response simultaneously reflects the ambivalence of the Labour tradition in this area. The Home Office was never a great concern of the early Labour party. Home Office affairs have rarely set the blood racing at the Labour party conference, in contrast to both Tories and Liberal Democrats. Labour has never been able to reconcile the instincts of its conservative and liberal traditions - and the divide is as wide today as it has ever been.Meanwhile, the Home Office is historically one of Whitehall's great bastions of conservatism and inertia. In part this reflects its important, though largely tacit, role as the arm of British government most concerned with combating revolution and disorder."There was something inherent in the nature of Home Office work which made its officials particularly aware of reasons why changes should not be made," the departmental historian Jill Pellew wrote in the 1980s. For much of its life, the Home Office has tended to fight shy of new ideas. A Victorian-era official once described his transfer from the Home Office to the intellectually dynamic Treasury as like "coming out of a morgue and into a busy workshop".That would not be a remotely fair description today. For much of the past 30 years, the Home Office has had quite a strong workshop culture of its own, largely driven by its research wing. But these have also been the years in which the Home Office's main responsibilities have been politicised in a partisan manner to an unprecedented degree. Overwhelmingly the main challenges facing this area of government are to make it more effective at preventing crime - for which building more prisons is probably the least effective answer imaginable - and to make migration issues less divisive, in part by setting numerical limits. But these things are very easy to say, and very hard to do, in a tabloid-dominated culture.Reid needs to recall the words of one of his more distant predecessors as a Labour home secretary. "The corridors of the Home Office," Herbert Morrison once reflected, "are paved with dynamite." Reid may have decided to blow up the whole building to avoid that danger, but the truth is that explosions simply go with the job he now holds.martin.kettle@theguardian.com