Police officers failed to speak to a man named as a suspect in two violent knife crimes weeks before he went on to stab the Harry Potter actor Rob Knox to death, the Guardian has learned.Karl Bishop, 22, was yesterday convicted at the Old Bailey of murdering Knox whom he stabbed five times outside a club in Sidcup, Kent, in May last year.Knox, 18, who had played the part of Marcus Belby in Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince, was stabbed five times, once fatally in a main artery, as he tried to protect his younger brother, Jamie, from an attack by Bishop. He died in hospital later that evening.In the weeks before he murdered Knox, Bishop had been named to police as a suspect in March 2008, first for an attempted robbery at a cashpoint where he used a knife. He was then named as a suspect in the same month for a burglary and it was alleged again that he used a knife.In neither case was Bishop arrested or even seen by detectives, Scotland Yard yesterday admitted, despite the fact that he had previous convictions for knife crime. The force said two officers involved in the robbery investigation had been given written warnings and that an investigation into the errors was carried out, which was supervised by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.In a statement Scotland Yard said it would learn the lessons.Bishop, 22, who had denied murdering Knox, had armed himself with two kitchen knives and lashed out at bystanders, his face "screwed up in rage", after being involved in a scuffle at the Metro bar in Sidcup, south-east London, earlier in the evening. He will be sentenced today. Knox's parents wept as the verdict was passed.Brian Altman QC, prosecuting, said: "Unhappily, his courage and his sense of duty were to cost him his life." Bishop's violent rage led him to attack Knox and a number of his friends. As he was arrested, he begged police to save him from the angry crowd that had surrounded him, then winked and smiled as he was led away. He claimed it was his victims who had been "going mad" and that it was their fault for "running into" his knife. A police officer said Bishop showed no remorse after his arrest, saying "yeah, sweet" when told Knox had died. Outside court Knox's mother, Sally, said: "As a mother and parent I can never forgive the person responsible for taking my son Robert's life, or the devastation that has been caused by these actions."His father Colin said: "His life was stolen, taken without permission. He was taken in the most cruel way possible."Knox had just finished filming his part in the Harry Potter film.