The decision on whether Harold Shipman should return to court to face 23 more murder charges will not be taken until at least the end of the month, sources close to the inquiry said yesterday."It's far too early to speculate about new charges," a spokeswoman for the crown prosecution service said yesterday. "All we would say is that we are going to take a decision based on the views of the families and that the police will be making contact with them. We will have to wait and see." Any new prosecution would be fraught with practical and legal difficulties and any decision would have to involve the highest law officers in the land. If Shipman finds himself back in the dock, it will be because police want to give other grieving relatives acknowledgement that the deaths of their family members were cruel and unnatural. "That's a very real need," said a source in the police team. "We really feel for them." Their needs could be met if Shipman admitted his killing spree. But he has so far failed to acknowledge any guilt. One problem likely to face the CPS is doubt over whether Shipman could get a fair second trial because of the publicity about the the first 57-day. There would also be questions about the cost of a new trial. "There's nothing to prevent the CPS from going to see Shipman to interview him," said Owen Davies QC, a leading criminal lawyer. "If he admits them, it may be worth taking him back to court. If he denies them, then the CPS might decide that, with all the distress another trial would cause relatives, it would not be worth the candle." Greater Manchester police last night said 10 further cases have been brought to their attention since the beginning of the trial. Police now know of 146 suspicious deaths, which also included the 15 cases of which Shipman was convicted on Monday, and the 23 cases being examined by the CPS. Shipman, 54, is still in the medical wing of Manchester prison, a Victorian jail, where he remains on a round-the-clock suicide watch. He was segregated while on remand and throughout the trial because of the risk that he may try to harm himself. He is in an ordinary cell, approximately 12ft x 6ft, sparsely furnished with a single metal-framed bed, a bedside cabinet, toilet and wash basin. It also has a table and chair bolted to the floor. In the next few months Dr Shipman will be assessed, as he is now a lifer, and sent to a high-security prison - probably Wakefield in west Yorkshire - which has around 500 prisoners. Shipman has been allowed a noticeboard which he has covered with postcards from his family and supporters. His daughter Sarah sent a postcard of a steam engine, which has pride of place. Shipman liked to play Trivial Pursuit with his fellow inmates, but he was eventually banned because he was so good at the game. He will be allowed to see his wife or family once a week for an hour. Shipman will not be automatically segregated, but he can be asked to go on rule 43 where he would be separated from other prisoners. Sources in the prison service indicate that he is unlikely to get a hostile reception because of the nature of his crimes - all the women were middle-aged or elderly and he is not a sex offender. He is more likely to be integrated. But they said he may be the target of verbal abuse from other prisoners because of his notoriety.