The jury in the case of five men charged with murdering PC Sharon Beshenivsky was discharged today after failing to reach a verdict on one count of robbery.Three men were convicted of killing the police officer yesterday as the jury returned a string of verdicts in the 11th week of a complex trial at Newcastle crown court. A fourth gang member admitted murder earlier this year.The fifth defendant, Raza Ul-Haq Aslam, 25, was yesterday cleared of murder, manslaughter and firearms charges but the jury has failed to reach a verdict in relation to a robbery charge. After almost 23 hours of deliberations the jury was discharged today.During the trial, Mr Aslam said he had played no part in the killing but had been "in the wrong place at the wrong time". Mr Aslam insisted the first he knew of the officer's murder was when the gang returned to their base in Harehills Lane, Leeds, where he worked as a handyman.The 38-year-old officer was shot dead on November 18 last year, as she arrived at the scene of a bungled robbery in Bradford city centre on the day of her youngest daughter's fourth birthday. Her colleague PC Teresa Milburn was also shot and seriously injured as the robbers escaped with little more than £5,000.Yesterday, Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, was unanimously found guilty of murdering PC Beshenivsky. He told the jury in evidence that he fired the fatal shot from a 9mm gun, but had not intended to kill PC Beshenivsky. He had admitted robbery and two firearms offences.Two brothers from London, Faisal and Hassan Razzaq, 25 and 26, were cleared of murder, but found guilty by a majority of 10-1 of manslaughter. They were cleared of possessing the machine gun and pistol with intent to endanger life.Faisal Razzaq told the trial that he had been around the corner from the travel agency at the time of the robbery, having a meal at a balti house. He denied prosecution claims that he was a lookout, but the court heard that he had driven a car into a nearby side street at the time the panic-stricken raiders were fleeing.Mzzaker Imtiaz Shah, 25, of no fixed address, admitted the murder of PC Beshenivsky earlier this year and was not in court yesterday.Jamma's brother, Mustaf, is one of two men still being sought for questioning about the killing. The other wanted man is Piran Ditta Khan, who the court heard was the "architect of the robbery".PC Beshenivsky was fatally wounded by a bullet which smashed her spine and main blood vessel. She had qualified as a constable earlier in the year, after working as a childminder while bringing up three children of her own and two stepchildren.