When the results of the first British Crime Survey - now called the Crime Survey of England and Wales - were published some commentators expected the data to prove that our streets were overrun with criminals attacking elderly ladies. This couldn't have been futher from the truth.  25 February 1983. Click on image to read more findings from the 1983 surveyThe BCS, which was the first victim based survey, concluded that people over 60 were least at risk from violent crime. But it was elderly women aged 60 and over who were most afraid of crime. The survey found that men who went out drinking several nights a week were most at risk from violence.Before the BCS, the Home Office relied on police figures, though these were seen as being inaccurate as victims didn't always report crimes to the police. There was also a feeling in the Conservative government, who tasked the Home Office to organise the survey, that the public needed some reassurance that there wasn't a 'rising tide of violence' in the country following the inner city riots in 1981.  Observer, 17 January 1982. Click on image to read in fullWhether the BCS survey allayed the public's fear about crime is questionable. What the survey, with its 11,000 sample group, did do is provide a more accurate picture of criminal activity. The survey recorded four times as many offences of property loss and damage than were recorded by the police, and around five times as many offences of violence (wounding, robbery and sexual crimes). In a leader column, the Guardian welcomed the BCS as a new method of collecting data on crime but warned that it was people's fear of crime that was still blighting communities.  25 February 1983. Click on image to read in fullAlthough the findings of the 1983 survey were relatively positive, the report got a mixed reaction from the public. Some welcomed the findings, others pointed to the empty streets at night where they lived as evidence of people's fear about going out after dark. Though not everyone agreed that our streets were as unsafe as we sometimes wanted to believe.  20 June 1984. Click on image to read in full