David Blunkett today signalled further action to curb gun crime if Labour gains a third term of office.The home secretary told Labour's conference in Bournemouth: "Two terms in office isn't enough to prepare Britain for the century ahead." In his keynote speech, he indicated the challenge of gun culture would be tackled head on if Labour won a third term in power.Mr Blunkett's comments came two days after Marian Bates was gunned down by armed raiders at the family-run jewellery shop in Arnold, near Nottingham. "Today our hearts go out to the family and friends of Marian Bates," he said. "The community of Arnold has been and must be again a peaceful place in which to work and live and communities across the country must be restored to their people, protected from the organised gangs and gunrunners. Pledging support to the police to tackle gun crime, he said: "The reality of the moment may well be the challenge of guns. But it will not be the reality of tomorrow if this Labour government succeeds in getting a third term in office to carry forward our agenda." The home secretary also announced that police numbers in England and Wales had hit a record 136,386 at the end of August well ahead of the target of 132,500 by March next year. Justice system shakeupMr Blunkett's address was preceded by a speech by his cabinet colleague Lord Falconer, in which the constitutional affairs secretary promised a radical shakeup of the justice system to shift its focus from procedures to the needs of victims. Lord Falconer said a new supreme court, an independent body to appoint judges and improved access to legal aid, would all contribute. And he told delegates that the abolition of the traditional role of lord chancellor would symbolise the scale of the reform. "The abolition of the role marks real change. Change for a purpose, change to make the justice system serve all the people particularly those who need it most. "The kind of change Labour governments are elected to achieve." He said he wanted to stop people feeling there was no point reporting crime. "We've all heard too many stories of an offender bailed for an offence who go out and do it again while they are still on bail and nothing happens to them. "Or the offender who gets off drugs in prison and then on the day they're released goes straight back to the dealer. "We know we can't stop every crime. But the wellbeing of our communities depends on a criminal justice system in which people have faith." A radical change of emphasis was needed, he said. "For too long the system has focused too much on the people working in it. And too little on the people it's supposed to be there for: the victims, the witnesses, the community, people harmed by drugs and crime not the people doing the harm of drugs and crime. "We need to shift the balance. We need to make sure the system serves the public and not the other way around." He used the example of the victims of the Omagh bombing who were unable to claim legal aid to bring a civil action but have now been promised financial help by the government. "We will make sure that the victims can get legal aid, that they can bring their case to court and that they can seek justice." Lord Falconer said he was the first lord chancellor to address conference - and the last as the post is to be abolished. He said it was unacceptable that the politician in charge of the justice system - he is now also secretary of state for constitutional affairs - should also have to act as speaker of the House of Lords and head of the judiciary. "Our reforms are radical. They are real reforms, they are Labour reforms. They are there for a purpose: to restore faith in our institutions, to protect our communities and our people, to help people fight terror, to fight drugs, to fight crime. "Without a reformed justice system and without real and renewed efforts to fight crime, then there's precious little hope for so many of the communities who look to this New Labour government for renewal and regeneration. We cannot allow that to happen."Mr Blunkett - whose plans for ID cards and jury-trial restrictions have angered civil rights groups - insisted transforming the civil justice system was not about "knocking judges" or "attacking civil liberties," but about restoring the civil liberties of those whose lives were blighted by the anti-social behaviour of others. He challenged the Tories and Liberal Democrats to back efforts to curb jury-fixing by organised criminals in a bid to escape justice. Mr Blunkett said the rise in police recruitment was being matched by increases in support staff, to put more and more crime fighters on the streets. "We are fighting crime and at the same time making sure it doesn't pay," he said.Under the Proceeds of Crime Act more than £1m a week was coming in from convicted criminals and being spent on fighting crime.