Two contradictory versions of how the British student Meredith Kercher was killed were set before a judge at a hearing near the Italian city of Perugia yesterday.Ms Kercher, 21, who was studying at the city's University for Foreigners, was found dead in her bed with her throat cut last Friday. Police have said she was killed as she fought off a sex attack.Ms Kercher's US flatmate, Amanda Knox, Ms Knox's boyfriend, and a bar owner have been held in jail since Tuesday. No charges have been laid.For over two hours yesterday, Judge Claudia Matteini questioned the detainees and listened to arguments put forward by their lawyers and the prosecutor leading the investigation into what Italian media have dubbed the "House of Horrors" mystery. The hearing was intended to establish if there was sufficient evidence to keep Ms Knox, 20, her boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, and Diya "Patrick" Lumumba in prison.Mr Lumumba, a 38-year-old originally from the Democratic Republic of Congo, owns a bar in Perugia where Ms Knox worked part-time. He is married with a child.The American student's lawyer, Luciano Ghirga, told reporters afterwards that "two contrasting theories were compared" at the hearing. "We maintain the girl's innocence. The prosecutor maintains that she took part in the crime."Ms Knox originally told police she had not been at home on the night that Ms Kercher died. But the Italian daily Corriere della Sera earlier this week published extracts from what it said was a subsequent statement in which Ms Knox said she had been with her flatmate and Mr Lumumba at the house.According to this account, she heard screams and thuds coming from Ms Kercher's bedroom after Mr Lumumba entered it. She covered her ears to shut out the noise, and later went to sleep at her boyfriend's flat.Tiziano Tedeschi, representing Raffaele Sollecito, said his client had answered all the questions put to him. "He's innocent," he said.The 24-year-old Italian first backed his girlfriend's claim that they had been together on the night. He later told police he had been alone at home until Ms Knox joined him at 1am.Less is known about the other version of events set out yesterday, by the prosecutor. Reports of the autopsy indicated two people were believed to have taken part in the killing.According to Italian media, the prosecutor is reluctant to rule out Mr Sollecito's presence at the scene of the crime. It is suspected he could have left a footprint at the house, but this has yet to be confirmed.Mr Lumumba's lawyers said last night he had denied ever going to the house. He was said to have told the judge that he was working. His lawyers said there were "witnesses and documentary proof" of this.Judge Matteini is to announce her ruling today.