We looked like a Russian bread queue on a Moscow street in midwinter. I was on a visit to a category A offender in a top-security prison in the north. He had two murders, a vicious rape and one previously served life sentence on his record. There would be no release for him. Written off by family and society, he had applied to the voluntary organisation for which I worked requesting a visitor.It was not the procession of electronic gates, the security procedures or the forbidding trek to the special visits room that struck me. It was the sheer banality of our conversation."What was your journey like, David?""Tedious. The A1 was completely snarled up.""How are you keeping?""Fine thanks. And you?"Such visits have a surrealistic quality about them. One moment you are stirring sugar into a cup of institutional tea, sitting on chairs round a metal table and having a cosy chat. Then suddenly the horror of what the man has perpetrated kicks in and you wonder why you are there. Why waste time socialising with somebody whose inhumanity cries aloud? Yes, there is fear too. I study his face covertly looking for signs of madness, the demonic. This man is dangerous. What if he attacks me?Two hours later the visit comes to an end. The watching prison officers follow their charges back to the impenetrable depths of the prison and I emerge into the fresh air. Outside in the car park I stare at the forbidding walls and try to rationalise the experience.Many would view the imprisonment as retributive justice, and that is a valid approach. The man has committed crimes of such a heinous nature that he should be locked up and punished as severely as possible until the day he dies. Others rue the demise of the death sentence. After all, his life is worthless and he is an affront to civilised society, a drain on the public purse, worthy only of the foulest epithets. This uncompromising approach is entirely understandable – and who could blame the victims' families for adopting it? But it offers a depressing picture. There are no redeeming factors here, only a series of dreadful and destructive events.There is another possibility which contains at least the seeds of something hopeful. Yes, the prisoner should be incarcerated for life, but there is always the potential that he might come to feel remorse.True enough, this is sometimes used as a ploy to obtain early release or favour with the authorities, but it can happen. I have seen it in a soldier who killed a man in a bar brawl, a strong man weeping for his wrongdoing. All this offers a modicum of hope but leaves many loose ends. It is unlikely to appease the anger of the families, who have to bear unimaginable grief. It offers no possibility of rapprochement between hurt and hurter and it depicts life as brutish and destructive.The only way out of this grim situation is to posit an existence of some kind beyond this one in which all the irreconcilables can be brought together and be melded into harmony. Perhaps this is no more than an empty and naive wish. It is certainly unprovable and will run the gauntlet of scorn from materialists. That said, it is what the adherents of most of the world's religions hold, including those of the Christian faith. I choose to believe it, not as an article of faith, but because the alternative is too bleak.