Children's charities and probation officers last night voiced "grave concerns" over the launch today of four pilot schemes which give parents the right to check whether anyone with direct access to their children is a sex offender.The trials will enable single mothers to check on any criminal background of a new partner, and they will be told in confidence if the police have knowledge of a history of sex offending, domestic violence or child neglect.The moves are a response to a campaign by the News of the World and Sara Payne, whose eight-year-old daughter, Sarah, was murdered by a paedophile in 2000, for a law giving local disclosure of the names and addresses of convicted sex offenders. Closely modelled on Megan's law - US legislation that allows communities free access to the names and addresses of convicted sex offenders living nearby - the British scheme will provide the first formal mechanism for the disclosure of background details, including police intelligence as well as convictions, to parents, carers or guardians.The pilot schemes are to start in Southampton, Stockton-on-Tees, Peterborough and across Warwickshire. Home Office ministers insist that while anyone can raise their suspicions about an individual with the police, disclosure will only be for those directly responsible for a child's care. Grandparents, for example, can raise their concerns about an offspring's boyfriend with the police but the mother, not them, will be told the outcome of any police investigation.Ministers also concede that confidentiality can only be enforced by civil injunctions; parents who abuse the information to stir up vigilante action could face prosecution under incitement or public order laws. The limited disclosure regime will affect not only adult offenders but those under 18 as well.The latest edition of the Home Office pamphlet Keeping Children Safe says: "There is a growing understanding that this risk [of sexual abuse] lies mostly within families and communities. But very few people realise that other children can sometimes present a risk. A third of those who have sexually abused a child are themselves under the age of 18." However, probation staff last night warned that even this limited form of disclosure of the sex offenders register was fraught with difficulties. Harry Fletcher, of Napo, the probation and court staff union, said that predatory sex offenders were known to focus on the most vulnerable single mothers they could find: "They groom them for long periods and so they are the people least likely to come forward to seek information. They are not going to check on potential partners if it means the relationship might be disrupted." Fletcher also questioned whether breaches of confidentiality could be enforced against individual parents.Martin Narey, Barnado's chief executive, also said he was "gravely concerned" because greater disclosure could prompt more sex offenders to flee the police and probation supervision. "We still remain concerned that this is not the best way to protect children." He added that there was no guarantee the details of sex offenders would not be passed to the press or be available in the community, and pointed out that the pilots did not come with a public education campaign.Paul West, spokesman for the Association of Chief Police Officers, said multi-agency public protection panels already had the power to disclose the criminal backgrounds of offenders to parents on a need-to-know basis. He said a carer who raised concerns about an individual would be given an initial answer within 24 hours and offered a meeting in confidence. Within 10 to 45 days there would be more detailed disclosure. Sara Payne, who has campaigned for controlled access to the sex offenders register, said: "This is to me the start of the end of secret keeping when it comes to sex offenders."