As news of the events in Cumbria unfolded yesterday, I was speaking at the Guardian Hay festival. A member of the audience asked a question about the shootings, which had happened only a few hours before and about which information was very sketchy.The questioner was a magistrate and she explained the personal trepidation with which she signed gun licences and asked if I thought there was anything more that could be done to review the suitability of people to hold weapons.The scale of events is clearer today. As well as Derrick Bird, the gunman, 12 people are dead and eleven more are wounded, three critically.Whitehaven and Boot, where Bird shot himself, now join the names of Dunblane and Hungerford in the list of place names that will forever be associated with the tragedy of a death at random from a clear blue sky.It is too early to understand yet the motivation behind the shootings or what was known, if anything, about Bird's mental condition. Whatever those may have been, I am sure that calls will come for further tightening of the laws concerning firearms. For those who mourn today, such calls will be part of a completely understandable desire to prevent such a tragedy occurring somewhere else (and with the all too real possibility of copycat killings, that cannot be ruled out). I am sure the Home Office will wish to look again at the relevant legislation.The difficulty is that, following earlier horrors, Britain already has some of the tightest controls on gun ownership in the world. Legitimate owners and users of firearms already face very tight procedures indeed for the granting and renewal of firearms licences.Illegal weapons remain extremely difficult to obtain. The rate of discharge of firearms in London, when I last looked, was one-nineteenth of the rate in Los Angeles. Only last week, a senior police officer made clear that the way gangs used firearms in their disputes is by passing the very few available weapons around. Many of the weapons being used in this way are converted from blank-firing weapons.There may be one way forward, which would be a widening of civic duty for those in possession of especially dangerous objects. The question is, what objects? The contents of our kitchen drawers? A car?It is odd that 47 years can pass after a driving test before an individual's fitness to drive is reassessed. Far more people are killed in vehicle accidents than by almost any other form of accidental or deliberate death. There would be merit in introducing further testing at intervals over our lifespans and increasing the number of people, including family members, in the decision to allow an elderly person to continue to drive, even though we know that the withdrawal of a licence can have an adverse effect on an individual's confidence and health. But who has not heard remarks about someone questioning whether it is really right that they should still be driving?The reason I am drawing this parallel is that the mechanisms for making a decision over a firearms licence are much tighter than those for a driving licence, but the list of people involved usually remains rather limited.The police firearms officer, the doctor, the magistrate, all making decisions: is it possible that we should compulsorily involve family members, neighbours and colleagues in such decision-making? Is it possible that someone may have doubts? Is it odd if someone never uses their weapons but still wants to keep them? Should there be a ratchet that makes gun possession more questionable (but not impossible) the longer the individual has held a licence?I do not think we will do it for cars, although perhaps we should. For weapons, I imagine it will, even after this week, be seen as too intrusive. But I wonder.There are differences between the cases. The possession of a firearm is a privilege, not, except in a few cases, a necessity. I think the people of Cumbria will wonder too as to whether that privilege should require the giving up of some privacy in order to continue to have access to an object which, unlike a car, is designed and treasured solely for its lethality.