Penalties for marginally breaching speed limits are to be lowered in some cases, Alistair Darling, transport secretary, proposed yesterday, bowing to the chorus of public complaints that the current system is arbitrary, inflexible and shaped to raise taxes rather than create safer roads.This year 3 million speeding offences will be recorded and motorists penalised with lost points and fines.Just fewer than 1,000 pedestrians were killed by excessive speed last year, with the government claiming on the basis of research published this summer that 40% of lives have been saved by speed cameras. But the Conservatives have latched on to cumulative punitive fines for speeding, incursions into bus lanes, and failing to pay congestion fees as examples of motorists being punished. Mr Darling, angering the road safety lobby, said that motorists caught speeding just above the relevant limit may in future be given lower penalties or ordered to undergo the alternative of taking remedial driving courses. Mr Darling said the drivers might get only two penalty points, as opposed to three, for marginally breaching the speed limit. Penalties could now range between £40 and two penalty points for less serious offences and up to £100 and six points for more serious offences, especially speeding in 20mph limits set up to protect schools and neighbourhoods. The changes, designed to lift the fear of a total ban from the frequent motorist, will replace the "one-size fits all" approach, Mr Darling said. They will not require primary legislation and follows previous indications of a more flexible policy on penalties for speeding Critics claim the number of camera fines has increased from 400,000 in 1998 to 2 million last year. But the number of road deaths has remained about 3,400 a year. Last year it rose slightly to 3,508. The RAC pointed out that its research indicates that 72% of drivers still think speed limit enforcement via safety cameras is more about raising revenues than improving road safety." The shadow transport secretary, Damien Green, urged the government to go further by backing an independent audit of the position of every speed camera and a review all limits. But Brigitte Chaudry, founder of the RoadPeace organisation, whose son Mansoor, 26, was killed by a speeding motorist, said: "These proposals could lead to more deaths. It could be that drivers will only get two penalty points for going at 39mph in a 30mph area. That's not a fraction over the speed limit - it's a long way over it. "Our research shows that al most half of Britain's motorists admit to speeding a little over the speed limit every day." As an alternative to fines or penalties, "speed awareness courses" nationwide will be offered by the department of transport for people such as first-time offenders in the lower speeding category. Mary Williams, chief executive of road safety group Brake, said: "We are appalled at this proposal, which flies in the face of the facts of speed. "At just 35mph the risk of death on impact with someone on foot or bicycle is far, far higher than at 20mph, which is a far safer limit in heavily built-up areas, and common in other European countries. "Our already excessive 30mph limits are not targets that drivers should be allowed to float around with minimal penalty." She said: "We have a terrible speed culture in the UK, where 59% of drivers routinely break urban 30mph limits. "With 888 people dying on foot and bicycles every year, and with an urgent need for 20mph limits, not 30mph, in these areas, it is an absolute disgrace that the government is basically saying it's all right to speed a little bit'. In 2002-3, fines from speed cameras and other speeding fixed penalty notices raised a minimum of £69m.