The full extent of the task facing Britain's police forces as they try to repair their tarnished reputation is revealed today by a Guardian/ICM poll showing that one in four of the public believe that most police officers are racist.This disturbing result underlines the need for the police to confront the expected damning findings of the official inquiry into the unpunished murder of the black teenager, Stephen Lawrence, when its report is published in the next fortnight. The ICM poll findings show that a significant minority of the public agree with the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, that "the problem of racism in the police service, is real, significant and must be addressed" and cannot be dismissed as just "a few bad apples". A particulary worrying finding is that an even higher proportion of younger people - 31 per cent - of the key 18 to 24 age group believe the blanket charge that most police officers tend to be racist or very racist. Despite police protests that they have been treated unfairly by the inquiry, the poll will remind the Government that the issue of police racism must be confronted and of the scale of reform that is needed if public confidence is to be restored in the force. The Guardian/ICM also shows that an even larger minority - one in three of the public - believes that, whatever the personal intentions of the officers involved, the way the police operate leads to discrimination against black and Asian people.  Thirty three per cent said they agreed that the police did not treat black or Asian people fairly by this definition of "institutional racism", while 45 per cent disagreed. Only 20 per cent of the public give the police a completely clean bill of health saying they "are not racist at all", but a further 36 per cent say they believe most officers "tend not to be racist". This means a majority do not agree with the stark claim that "most police officers are racist". Similarly 45 per cent of the public do not believe the way the police operate discriminates against black and Asian people. The determination of certain sections of the police service to divert attention in the run-up to the publication of the Lawrence inquiry report was highlighted in an editorial published yesterday in the Police Federation's official magazine, Police. The magazine claims that senior police officers draw back from justifying stop and search figures showing five times more black people than whites being stopped on the grounds that "black people are 'overrepresented' among convicted criminals" because it will arouse "a howl of protest from the people who have been crucifying the service". ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,211 adults aged over 18 by telephone between February 5-7. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.