At the secondary boys' school I went to in the East London borough of Tower Hamlets, anyone who took an interest in learning or attempting to achieve anything academically was labelled "gay". Rarely did it descend into physical violence.This was a Bangladeshi, Muslim-majority school, very much reflecting the community it was located in. In my entire year there were only two black boys and three white boys (one of them was Turkish). The relative homogeneity of the place meant that students had very little chance to meet people from different backgrounds.When they hurled homophobic abuse at each other, it was not in reference to a person's perceived sexuality (which most would not have known about anyway). It was more to do with highlighting a person as different – the last thing an acne-faced teenager wants to be. Verbal homophobic bullying was one of very few ways one was able to do this.But how did this relatively innocuous name-calling descend into the situation where 47 attacks against gay people were reported to the police in this borough last year? This included the near-fatal assault on a 20-year-old man who was verbally abused and had a bottle smashed over his head before being stabbed seven times.The perpetrators were a group of Bangladeshi teenage boys. George Galloway, the MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, described the assault at the time as "sickening and vile", something that would "unite the diverse community of Tower Hamlets in condemnation". He said there was "a rich and tolerant mix in Tower Hamlets. It's one of the good things about our borough … all those in public positions … should speak out clearly against those who would target one section or another of our community."But regardless of the public posturing by Galloway and other local leaders, the situation has reached such a level that the police felt it necessary recently to hold a meeting with the borough's gay and lesbian community to discuss the issue.Homophobic attacks are not just confined to this part of London. Metropolitan police statistics reveal a 13.5% rise in crimes motivated by homophobia across London. In the year to the end of June, 1,123 incidents were reported, compared with 989 the previous year.One suggestion for the increase has been that confidence has increased among the gay and lesbian community. More are coming forward to report their experiences, something that they felt unable to do previously. Nevertheless, every generation or so, those who had once experienced racism, religious discrimination or general bigotry, find some spurious justification for vilification, switch roles and lash out at another community. Today Bangladeshis make up a third of the population in Tower Hamlets and form the largest concentration of any ethnic minority in the UK.Richard Bean in his new play, England People Very Nice, based on the immigrants who have made the borough a home, suggests that to become English, one has to go through this rite of passage of hating others. Are these attacks against gay people a symbol of a growing confidence in being English? The explanation is far more prosaic than this.The young men who are committing these acts do so because it reinforces their sense of masculinity. The violence allows them to define themselves among their peer group but more importantly it helps bolster a sense of flagging social esteem that goes back generations. Some time back it was street prostitutes in the area who were targeted for precisely the same reason.The parents and grandparents of these young men were once subject to verbal abuse, violent physical attacks and even death. The motivation for it then was racism. Some of today's perpetrators would have also experienced this violence first-hand themselves. But while this has been taken off the streets, much of it is now institutionalised. In a misguided bid to protect the community from threats – something not so ludicrous when many believe they are victims of Islamophobia – these self-appointed crusaders are targeting marginalised people who can be bullied with impunity. Women and the perceived effeminacy of gay men come into direct antithesis to this sense of testosterone-dripping machismo.Recently this issue has been exacerbated by the space created by "brown flight". Imitating previous white flight, this is the growing numbers of aspirational, middle-class Bangladeshis leaving the area for greener pastures in the suburbs. Those left behind are extremely likely to have few qualifications or be unemployed.Filling the gaps are yuppies and the ubiquitous "young professional couple" attracted to the gloss of multiculturalism (which for most who live it, means poverty and grime). It is they who live in the glass-and-steel condominiums built next to dingy council estates. Bars, clubs and haute cuisine restaurants that have mushroomed here cater to the needs of the well-off, alienating these men, not least by their prices.Gay people are simply the most vulnerable section in this group of well-heeled newcomers at whom frustration can be easily aimed. All of this is buoyed by a religious doctrine that many believe considers homosexuals to be sinners, creating further justification for their cause.If the history of this area can teach us anything it is that change comes about not just by laws protecting the victims, but also the victims standing up for themselves. This can only happen with the aid and support of the majority group. It is time for gay people to begin engaging with the Bangladeshi community in Tower Hamlets and not simply to see them as the colourful backdrop to their multicultural existence. Simultaneously, it is time for Bangladeshis in the area to stand up for their fellow neighbours as many others had previously done so for them. Such an act may even change the myth that those here now will hate those who are newly coming in.