Gangs may be often associated with inner cities but police in one of England's most rural counties have identified about 150 young people who they believe are members of organised criminal groups.Gloucestershire police believe that five or six gangs are operating in Gloucester and say there are others in the outwardly sleepy towns of Stroud and Tewkesbury.Children as young as 11 are being controlled by gang leaders in their mid-20s, say officers. The gangs are involved in drug dealing, robberies, thefts and assaults.Inspector Neil Smith, who is heading a taskforce codenamed Avenger to tackle the problem, said the difficulties were not acute as in cities such as Birmingham and Manchester and there was no violent "turf war" between the gangs.But he said: "We have boys as young as 11 being ruled by gang leaders. The leaders are like Fagin. They have an evil streak but to the young people working for them they are seen as charismatic leaders."Smith said the gangs were able to recruit members because they gave people a feeling of belonging. Every one of the 150 members they had identified had previous links with agencies such as social services, he added.The police are working with county council youth workers, the city council, schools and other organisations to tackle the problem. Smith said: "There aren't a huge number of people involved but the effects of their actions cause ripples across the entire community. This task force is about getting right to the root of the problem – ideally intervening when the warning signs are there for a youngster but perhaps they're not in a gang yet."It is vital we tackle this area head-on and with all our partners on board. Society as a whole must stand up and let youngsters in the city know that this isn't a cool way of life or one that leads to respect or riches."A crackdown earlier this year on gang violence led to more than 50 arrests. Two people received injunctions banning them from entering Gloucester after being convicted of offences related to gangs.Another scheme launched to help also has, by coincidence, a Dickensian feel to it. A project called Great Expectations involves prisoners mentoring young gang members to warn them against a life of crime.