It was the Chicago crime baron Al Capone who, after a career of racketeering, gin-running and brutality, was finally convicted for the comparatively milk-and-water offence of tax evasion. In a similar manner, Camden council has announced it is going after the major record labels, including Sony and BMG - but not for crimes against humanity such as encouraging Tori Amos or Kenny G. Instead, Camden is trying to serve executives from the two companies with asbos - anti-social behaviour orders - designed to curb behaviour such as noise, repeated abuse or drunkenness. But as Al Capone discovered, a mild sounding crime can still add up to a stiff penalty: asbos carry a maximum jail sentence of five years if breached.Camden cannot be blamed for trying this novel use of asbos. Flyposting has migrated from a few cheeky chappies and a paste bucket. Today it is a highly organised business. The posters themselves - advertising bands, video games, films, venues and even books - are expensively produced and glossy. The posters are impossible to miss in Britain's inner cities: they are a tatty urban eyesore. Camden is particularly blighted, thanks to its live music venues and nightclubs. But even a zero tolerance approach, as Camden has discovered, does not pay, because the rewards for the flyposters outweigh the risks. A fine for flyposting is a maximum £2,500, while the value of the advertising gained is many times greater. Camden is right to go after the music companies who have long been the worst offenders, while using arms-length tactics to avoid responsibility. The only question is whether asbos are the best way to go about it. In an ideal world they would not be, but until the law allows councils to levy serious punishment for flyposting, they are a good alternative. The most amusing thing about Camden's action is that the music industry has been loudly demanding tough action against unauthorised music downloading over the internet. Yet the record labels' nocturnal flyposting shows they are just as willing to hitch a free ride.