Michael Howard will attempt tomorrow to secure his long-delayed political breakthrough with a keynote speech on crime, including measures to restore respect, end the rights culture and free up police time to deal with persistent offenders.In a speech that has echoes of his tough stance as home secretary in the 90s, Mr Howard will blame the decline in personal responsibility and the growth of a rights culture as contributing to a breakdown of respect in society. He will also argue that the decline in responsibility lies at the heart of the crime increase, and that measures to restore responsibility are the precursor to urban renewal. His speech will be made on a visit to Middlesbrough to meet Ray Mallon, the Mayor of Middlesbrough - the so-called Robocop who has championed zero tolerance of disorder. Mr Mallon specialises in ensuring that the council employs community wardens, litter enforcement officers and traffic wardens who fight against local environmental crimes, freeing up the police to focus on proactive policing to tackle more serious crime. The Tories hope that they will go into the next election with a draw on education and health, but surge ahead on their traditional ground of asylum and crime. In a move away from his old rhetoric of "prison works", Mr Howard will say that "in many ways the police, our courts and the prison service are simply picking up the pieces of other people's failures". He will argue: "As a society we are in danger of being overrun by values which eat away at people's respect for themselves, each other, their homes and their neighbourhood. "Most damaging of all has been the dramatic decline in personal responsibility. Many people now believe that they are no longer wholly responsible for their actions. It's someone else's, or something else's fault - the environment, society, the government." Although the speech will contain tough new criminal justice measures, Mr Howard will stress that the causes of crime lie in the need to ensure parental responsibility. However, he will be careful to eschew any suggestion that children cannot be parented well outside marriage. "Children, especially boys, benefit hugely from a male influence in their lives. Of course this isn't always possible because a large number of men simply abandon their responsibilities as fathers." The home secretary, David Blunkett, will counter with a consultation paper this week setting out plans to give police extra powers to levy duties on publicans and give extra powers to community support officers to detain people for anti-social behaviour. Mr Howard's speech comes as the Tories released a Home Office internal survey showing morale in the immigration and nationality department at rock bottom. The leaked survey of Home Office workers has revealed that only 33% of employees feel that it is safe for them to challenge the way that things are done in Mr Blunkett's department.