The two teenage muggers who stabbed a young City lawyer to death while robbing him of £20 and his mobile phone were jailed for life at the Old Bailey yesterday.Donnel Carty, 19, and Delano Brown, 18, will serve minimum terms of 21 years and 17 years respectively after a judge heard that their attack on Thomas ap Rhys Pryce was just one of a series of muggings they had committed on the London underground. They were part of a group that struck eight times on the tube in one night.Mr ap Rhys Pryce, 31, was set upon as he left Kensal Green underground station in north-west London in January and was stabbed twice in the chest when he refused to hand over his possessions.Describing him as a man "in the wrong place at the wrong time", Mr Justice Aikens said the brave victim was "true to his nature", adding: "He was not going to let two young thugs rob him in the street he lived. With having the courage to resist he paid with his life." As members of Mr ap Rhys Pryce's family and his fiancée, Adele Eastman, sat ashen-faced, the judge told the two attackers they had shown no discernible remorse. "I can only hope that in the future you may have some glimpse of the effect of your crimes and the suffering you have caused," he said.As sentence was passed, Carty stared straight ahead while Brown obscured his face beneath his collar.Brown, who had the street name Shy, admitted robbing the lawyer in Bathurst Gardens, Kensal Green, but claimed it was his cousin Carty, known as G-Rock, who stabbed Mr ap Rhys Pryce. Mr Justice Aikens detained Brown at Her Majesty's pleasure because of his age and told him he must serve a minimum of 17 years before being considered for release.He told Brown: "It is plain from your own evidence that you are in fact an intelligent young man. You left school with GCSEs and went to college, where you qualified to teach sports to children."Carty, as the older of the two, was sentenced as an adult. But the judge said he viewed both as culpable. "This was the most serious offence of a series of offences that involved knives and in which innocent members of the public travelling on the underground or going from stations were attacked," he said.Carty received a further eight and Brown six years for robbery, the sentences to run concurrently. They were also jailed for six years concurrent for robbing Kurshid Ali, a chef, at Kensal Green station just 20 minutes before the murder of Mr ap Rhys Pryce. Outside court, the murder victim's parents, John and Estella, reiterated their call for young people to stop carrying knives. "As Rio Ferdinand said, knives are not cool, and we must get the message across."