The social media sphere erupted in disgust last week after a video showing a sickening, unprovoked attack on a 16-year-old girl in Plaistow, east London, started doing the rounds.CCTV footage shows a man approach the girl from behind and hit her so hard on the head that she flies through the air, before landing motionless on the ground. The footage went viral along with a video still of the attacker, and an arrest has since been made. Happily, the girl escaped with minimal injuries and is said to be coping well.The details behind the arrest are unclear, but the fact that social media played a critical role in this case is indisputable. Thousands of people shared the video and news reports weaved a collective mesh of knowledge and awareness. And equally importantly, the outpouring of kindness and concern from strangers around the country – and indeed the world – will have provided invaluable support for the teenager whose faith in humanity has no doubt been badly shaken.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest I know this, because last month I experienced it for myself. In the early hours of 14 October, after leaving a friend's house in Clapham my boyfriend and I were viciously attacked by a man who leapt out of the darkness. I was punched twice in the face and had my head smashed on a nearby car bonnet, before falling unconscious on the road. My boyfriend – trying to protect me – had his leg broken in several places, and will now have a rod in his tibia for the rest of his life.It was without motive and completely unprovoked – seemingly like the attack in Plaistow. But unlike the Plaistow case, the CCTV cameras in the immediate area seem to serve only as filmless traffic deterrents (according to a local police officer). So I went to the great internet hivemind for help.The video I made was shared over 20,000 times and received extensive press coverage. Has it unearthed any clues as to my attacker's identity? No, although it did help to push enquiries along when the police were dragging their heels. What it did do, though, and in a way I never imagined, was to open up a far-reaching dialogue about the subject of violent crime.Among the hundreds of messages of support and kindness I received (which played an integral role in getting me through the first few days following the attack) were scores of similar stories. Tales of lone women being randomly attacked, stories of groups being set upon by strangers, accounts of men minding their own business and being punched in the face by unknown assailants. All punctuated with: "Why isn't anyone doing anything about this?"I'm angry that the degenerate that attacked me is still freely walking the streets, but I'm placated by the response the video has had. Not in the knowledge that countless others have suffered similar horrors, of course, but that there exists a platform on which individuals can come together and raise a collective voice against issues which would otherwise go unheard.Speaking about the "motiveless and completely unprovoked case" of the 16-year-old Plaistow girl, the Metropolitan police detective superintendent, Helen Millichap, said: "It's unusual for us to come across a crime of this nature." However, the conversations currently taking place on social channels would suggest otherwise.The internet paints a damning picture, but more importantly proves itself to be a formidable tool in the fight against criminality that might otherwise go unnoticed. We're beginning to discover a kind of neighbourhood watch for the digital age – one which will become progressively more important as traditional powers struggle to combat this type of damaging behaviour.