Husbands who claim their partner's nagging or infidelity drove them to kill will face much tougher sentences under a government shake-up of so-called 'crimes of passion'.Ministers are secretly reviewing the defence of provocation, which has its origins in the bygone tradition of men fighting duels, under which a defendant can evade a murder charge by arguing that their victim did or said something that made them lose control. Ministers argue that it reflects a medieval view of marriage, in which a man whose honour is insulted by a domineering or unfaithful wife is entitled to fatal revenge rather than a divorce. It also encourages defendants to blacken the victim's name in court, painting her as a bad wife. The review will prompt impassioned debate over modern relationships, with critics likely to argue that men instinctively respond differently than women to infidelity and that 'feminising' the law is unfair. 'This defence institutionalises the blaming of the victim - "I killed her, but it was all her fault" - and we say we are going to put the victim at the heart of the crim inal justice system,' said a Whitehall source. 'We put a high value on human life and have high standards of responsibility. Times have changed: we don't have duels and we don't see men's ownership of their wives in the same way.' The provocation defence cannot secure a killer's acquittal, but reduces the charge from murder carrying a life sentence to manslaughter, with a much shorter or even suspended sentence. Solicitor-General Harriet Harman, Home Secretary David Blunkett and the Lord Chancellor's Department are still discussing the reforms. Leading options include scrapping the provocation defence altogether - understood to be Harman's preference - or strictly limiting the circumstances in which provocation could be claimed, making clear that sexual jealousy is not enough. Ministers are also studying the US system of homicide counts, under which different 'grades' of murder carry different tariffs. The review follows the case of Madeleine Humes,who was killed by her husband, Les, a solicitor, after she confessed to an affair with her karate instructor. The court heard last year how their teenage daughter tried to seize the knife from Humes as he repeatedly stabbed her mother. Humes, who said in court he 'just saw this red mist', got seven years for manslaughter - leaving his wife's family furious. 'If Madeleine had survived and he had been charged only with attempted murder or GBH, he would have got more of a sentence than that,' says Paula Watt, Madeleine's sister. 'But he killed her, so he gets less. What kind of signal is that sending to people? All the way through, Les was seen as a victim - Maddie wasn't heard at all.' Home Office research on homicides found that women were much more likely to be killed by a husband or lover than a stranger: one of the most dangerous flashpoints is a woman leaving the relationship, even if - as in the Humeses' case - the marriage was not previously known to be violent. Using the defence requires defendants to show it was reasonable, given their character, for them to have responded by killing. But there is little definition of what counts as provocation. 'We call it the "nagging and shagging" defence - classically, it will be either "she was sleeping with someone else" or that she nagged him,' said solicitor Harriet Wistrich, of campaign group Justice for Women. 'But if it is simply that she is leaving you, is that enough of an excuse for murder?' Several women who have killed abusive partners - famously Sara Thornton - have claimed provocation, arguing that they snapped after years of putting up with domestic violence. But Ministers believe these cases could be covered by extending the law on self defence to cover cases where the woman was not responding to an immediate attack, but was still effectively killing to save herself. High-profile cases involving provocation include Joseph McGrail, who walked free in 1992 with a suspended sentence for kicking his wife to death, after pleading provocation on the grounds that she was an alcoholic and swore at him. The judge said the dead woman 'would have tried the patience of a saint'.