Murder charges may be laid over the death of 16-year-old Ahmed Benyermak, who fell from a tower block trying to escape a gang, police say. The case is being treated as unlawful killing but investigators said the charge could be upgraded if new evidence emerged.Detective Chief Inspector Ian Stevenson said Benyermak was so scared of the gang he tried to climb down the outside of the 13-storey block in Hackney, east London. He fell to his death.As Benyermak's family visited the spot where he was found fatally injured on Wednesday afternoon, Stevenson appealed for the youths involved in the incident to come forward."We know that during the afternoon Ahmed and a group of friends were on the top floor of the block of flats," he said. "They saw the group of six youths approach the estate on bikes. At that point they decided to leave. Ahmed had become separated from his friends, who went to the third floor."Ahmed remained at the top and it seems that one or more of the group made their way up to Ahmed, and he has been so scared he has made his way out of the balcony to shin down the outside of the flat. When he got to the seventh floor, his progress was stopped by a grille. He has cried out for help, lost his grip and fallen to his death."Stevenson said there was no evidence that Benyermak's fingers were stamped on to make him lose his grip, or that he was thrown from the building. "There are no injuries consistent with that scenario and the information we have is that Ahmed fell to his death trying to make his escape rather than being involved in a confrontation with this group."I think that they [the group] came here for a specific purpose. I do not know what that was, but certainly Ahmed and his group were sufficiently put on guard to decide to leave."Stevenson said forensic experts were examining a bike abandoned by the chasing group and officers were scrutinising CCTV footage from surrounding streets.Police said there may have been tensions between gangs on the estate but Benyermak was not known to have been involved in gangs or crime.The Rev Rob Wickham, rector of Hackney and a governor at Benyermak's school, said some local gangs used graffiti and tags to mark off areas of the estate as no-go areas for their rivals. "There are a number of vulnerable children around who are very frightened to be on the streets here," he said.Benyermak's mother, Naima Abdai, 40, visited the site of his death today. She leaned upon relatives and friends for support as she stood at the bottom of the block in Paragon Road, repeating: "I can't look up, I can't look up."Dozens of bunches of flowers lay on the grass where his body was found. Benyermak's aunt, Mina Benyermak, 47, said: "I cannot explain to you but he was a wonderful boy. He was very quiet and friendly with everyone, with the family, friends and neighbours. We just want anyone who witnessed it, just let us know. If we knew how it happened we could relax and we feel we could leave him in peace. We just to want to stop it happening to another person."In a statement released through the police, Benyermak's family said: "His loss is an enormous tragedy for his loving and devoted family. He was a happy, friendly and generous boy who stayed away from trouble and was a good student."On the day of his untimely death he was due to receive his GCSE results. He would have been delighted to discover that his hard work and dedication to his studies had rewarded him with passes in maths and science as well as other subjects."His 17th birthday would have been on September 1 and this was the day he was due to enrol on a mechanical engineering course at Tower Hamlets College. It is particularly sad that his now lifeless body lies in a mortuary in the very same street where he was due to begin this new chapter in his life."