As any detective knows, murder begins at home. It's one of those unpleasant conventions, borne in mind at a crime scene, along with a suspicion of the person who found the corpse. So it was with Luke Mitchell's murder of Jodi Jones in June 2003. The then 14-year-old boy led his girlfriend's family over a wall and into some woods to where the body he had mutilated lay in the darkness. A grotesque act that cannot but fascinate the rest of us.Friday's guilty verdict was clearly a relief for Jodi's family. Certainly, the finale to this, the longest 'single defendant' murder trial of in Scottish legal history, was a triumph for the police. It was also a great victory for a jury system under increasing attack.In a trial that never heard a serious motive and relied on purely circumstantial evidence, Mitchell's life, now only 16 years old, has turned to meet a future locked away from the rest of us. Jodi's mother cried 'justice' as the verdict was read out and it is true. Eight women and seven men did their duty. As they would have done, of course, had they been minded to acquit. The result, for those involved, will be visceral. For the rest of us, the sense that justice has been done should be soothing. Oddly, the feeling that overcame me on Friday was the same that I felt as I took in the result of the OJ Simpson trial in 1996. At the time I was standing on a rooftop in Los Angeles listening to one of the juror's explain her reasons, becoming aware that in a flawed nightmare, the system had attempted to repair itself. For a while that was a rather lonely belief among white people. But, as America split along racial lines, the jury remained true to the ultimate role of justice, which is to protect us all. They knew the police had tried to make sure of Simpson by planting additional evidence, and had therefore rendered any conviction unsafe. Here a far better thing happened. The police and the Procurator Fiscal were obviously worried they did not have enough, but they didn't gild the lily. They went to trial with what they had, the jury believed them, and Mitchell was convicted. That's not to say jurors are perfect. The flaws are legendary; from everyday stories of people reading newspapers through the deliberations to the rotten prejudice that was at the heart of a play like 12 Angry Men. For the professionals who surround them, the jury is the great imponderable in a trial, something to be endlessly discussed. Yet it's hard to find a lawyer who doesn't put their faith in them. The brilliance of the jury system lies in the acceptance that we are flawed people living flawed lives under flawed laws, but that most of us reach for better. In their none-too-cheerful but startling book, The Psychology of Death, Ruth Aisenberg and Robert Kastenbaum express how small the distance is between Luke Mitchell and the rest of us. Given all the threats we face before life terminates, they are amazed that we chose to make it worse with murder. "It is anomalous, from a rational viewpoint, that humans should slaughter each other," they write. "Why offer this assistance to death?" So why did he do it? It is the question that stands above others this weekend. Yet there is something pitiful about our obsession with the Satanic scrawls on his school jotters, our search for meaning in the childish, "I have tasted the devil's green blood." We should note the small part motive takes in Scottish criminal law. "If it's there, then all well and good," an advocate told me on Friday. "But it's by no means essential." Perhaps that is another brilliance in the law. Sometimes it is impossible for the court to find reason. "It is beyond me to look into the black depths of your mind," the judge told Mitchell. It would be interesting to know whether any of the jurors had a theory as to why Mitchell did it. Goth rocker Marilyn Manson seems to be picking up much of the heat for the paintings he made of the corpse of Elizabeth Short, a Californian murdered in the 1940s. The comparisons are strained, but they turned up in court, and involve Mitchell cutting Jodi's face and breast. While Manson's a creepy guy and the paintings are unpleasant, typing Short's name into Google pulls up the original photographs he used to make his images. The history of our fascination with the butchered remains of our less fortunate brethren is very long, so rather than point the finger at Manson, we should be clear that he's doing what many artists have done before him, only with a grungier audience. Such easy answers as blaming Manson are for those who have lost hope. The motive for this killing lies in those flaws at the heart of the brain, and we're still a long way from getting in there. Until we learn, we will find it impossible to comprehend Mitchell's reasons unless he chooses to tell us. What we can do though, is strive on with systems that we know work, rather than dismantle them in the face of some perceived new threat, like terrorism. The jury system works because it sidelines our individual failings by grouping us, while playing to our own best intentions. After all, in some grand sense, we are the jury, and as such we can go forward, together, after a 14 year-old incomprehensibly slaughters his girlfriend.