If I was still a serving police officer I would take great exception to the remarks made by Jack Straw, the justice minister, about lazy coppers who would rather stay in a warm police station than patrol their beats.At the very least the police have the right to expect unequivocal support from that quarter and they must be dismayed at what appears to be a stab in the back.As a former home secretary with responsibility for policing, his remarks carry a lot of weight – one might have expected it from David Blunkett, but Jack Straw has in the past shown great support for the police.Had his comments been made as a result of some recent empirical study of policing they would have had more credibility and would have caused less of a furore among police officers, but this was said almost casually in response to a question on a radio talk show.These are curious comments because they appear to show a woeful lack of knowledge about the nature of grassroots policing. Every police officer who has ever walked the beat knows that she or he is there for what she or he may be called upon to do. It is difficult to measure the value of that and it is equally difficult to measure reassurance and crime prevention.You cannot take one aspect of a tour of duty in isolation and criticise that. If there are systemic failings of supervision then they would quickly be recognised by existing management. You have to look at overall performance. Mundane administrative issues such as report writing and form filling have to be done and cannot be completed on the beat. If there are too many forms and red tape then Straw himself should shoulder much of the responsibility.A university study of the effectiveness of beat patrols concluded that the average police officer in the UK would need to patrol for 82 years before he or she encountered a burglar. What is an average beat? What is an average police officer? This is just the sort of nonsense that politicians love and probably led to the introduction of police community support officers, where you get three PCSOs for the same cost as one professional police officer.I suspect that Straw is working to his own political agenda. With a general election in the offing it is quite convenient for him to blame the police service for public dissatisfaction with law and order.In his memoirs, Lord Stevens, the former commissioner of the Metropolitan police, praises Mayor Giuliani in New York for "backing the NYPD to the hilt". Straw could pick up a tip here – a little more backing and a little less stabbing would be much appreciated.