The father of Lucie Blackman, the 21-year-old British girl raped and murdered in Japan six years ago, confirmed yesterday he was accepting a £450,000 'condolence' pay-out from a friend of the man accused of killing her.Tim Blackman's decision was denounced as 'obscene' by Lucie's mother, from whom he separated in 1995, and by their two other children. It came as prosecutors were about to begin their closing arguments in the trial of Joji Obara, the 54-year old property millionaire charged with a crime that shocked the world.Lucie, a former British Airways flight attendant from Sevenoaks, Kent who was working in a Tokyo nightclub, vanished on 1 July 2000 after saying she was going for a drive with a man.Her dismembered body was discovered seven months later in a cave in a fishing village outside the capital. She had been drugged, raped, murdered and dismembered. Her head had been encased in concrete.Her father said he was aware that the pay-out had angered his former wife and that she saw it as 'blood money', but he defended his 'really difficult' decision to accept it.He stressed the money was not part of a deal, permitted under Japan's legal system, through which a defendant can secure a reduction in his sentence by compensating his victims or their families. Blackman, who pointed out that Obara continued to deny his guilt, said earlier last week that he would accept a payment only with 'no conditions attached'.'The defence lawyers were suggesting we write to the court to say that we forgive the defendant, that we are sorry for him or we don't think he did it, which obviously we couldn't do.'Obara also has continued to insist he is innocent of nine other drug and rape charges dating from 1992 until the time of Lucie's killing. In one of the cases, an Australian woman was apparently raped and murdered. Her family has turned down a 'condolence payment'.Blackman said that he had decided to accept the offer of 100 million yen because the opportunity for such a payout would have lapsed at the end of September. The payment, he said, had been made by a college friend of Obara who had business interests in both Japan and Britain. He said Obara's lawyers had opposed the payment because it could be seen as an admission of guilt.'It is really difficult as a parent and head of a family to make decisions sometimes when people have lots of different views about it, but at the end of the day you have to make the decision,' he said. Commenting on his other children's opposition to the payment, he added: 'There is just so much emotional stuff attached to anything relating to Lucie's death. It is difficult for them to see backwards and forwards.'His former wife, Jane Steare, said last week that she had turned down an offer of about £200,000 from Obara's lawyers. 'I have rejected all and any payments from the accused, as have my daughter Sophie and my son Rupert,' she said. She denounced Blackman's willingness to consider a pay-out as 'utter betrayal' and said that Lucie's 'loyal family and friends' were 'sickened' by it.Blackman said the money would be placed in an account 'and we will see how everybody feels about it at the end of the trial'. A verdict is expected by the end of the year. Blackman has indicated that he intends to use the cash partly to pay off debts run up in pursuing the case and to support the two other children, both of whom have suffered health problems since Lucie's murder.A part of the pay-out will also reportedly go towards the Lucie Blackman Trust, a charity which he has established in her name. Last month, the trust received the backing of music celebrities including the Pet Shop Boys, Lily Allen and the Scissor Sisters for its latest campaign, 'Student Safe'.