Michael Gove claimed thousands in expenses to which he was not entitled. When discovered, he paid it back. A mother-of-two from Manchester slept through the riots but accepted as a gift a looted pair of shorts. She was not given the option of returning them; instead, she got five months in jail (Report, 13 August). Justice?Jeff HarrisonLondon• What next? The return of transportation to Australia for the theft of a loaf of bread (Magistrates told to disregard normal rules on sentencing, 16 August)?Dr John DaviesKirkby in Cleveland, North Yorkshire• In view of the huge numbers of riot offenders now clogging up the magistrates' courts and threatening to overburden our prisons, why has no one suggested offering an amnesty for those convicted of stealing goods up to an estimated value of, say, £500? This could be called the Hazel Blears option: an offender in full public view hands into the court a cheque for the amount of the goods stolen.Michael TrevallionBirmingham• We are hearing a great deal about what children and young people should not be doing with their time. Could somebody please tell us what they think they should or could be doing with it?Liz FraserLondon• The tragedy that befell Carla Rees, losing her priceless flutes and all her worldly goods in the Croydon riots (Report, 15 August), has also affected other musicians. We have already helped Eva Maria Hess, who lived in Tottenham and lost instruments including her violin, archives and recording work-in-hand, as well as credit cards and even passport. If any more professional musicians have been affected by the riots, come to us as your first port-of-call.David SulkinChief executive, Musicians Benevolent Fund• Gary Younge (These were political. They were looting, not shoplifting, 15 August) overlooks the role of looting as economic activity. Many looters were not taking goods to fulfil their own needs – they had expensive BlackBerrys, after all – but to furnish themselves with stock to sell or barter in their own parallel economy. Looting is market activity by other means.Sally BurchLondon • While many of those who left school last month face a future without hope, the combined fortunes of the 1,000 richest people in Britain rose £60bn in 2011 to nearly £400bn. How moral is that?Graham HodginLondon 