The pioneer of modern TV "celebrity chefs", whose trademark was a glass of wine quaffed while dousing his recipes with alcohol, was banned from driving for almost three years yesterday after a drunken crash.Keith Floyd, whose genial cooking sessions were backed by books including Floyd on Hangovers and Floyd Uncorked, was disqualified for 32 months and fined £1,500. The chef, now 60 and recovering from two strokes, apologised in court after admitting that he had crashed his Spanish-registered, left-hand-drive people-carrier into a Land Rover at a narrow bridge in rural Wiltshire. He told traffic police in a slurred voice that he had been drinking spirits at a business lunch, designed to boost his flagging career. Magistrates in Swindon heard that the much-publicised episode two weeks ago had subsequently lost him £30,000-worth of possible contracts. Floyd, who was three-and-a-half times over the alcohol limit, tried to do his bit for the annual Christmas campaign for safe driving after the hearing, before taking a taxi home with his wife, Tess. He told reporters and bystanders: "It's coming up to Christmas time - get pissed at home and don't drive. Have a great time." He added: "I am not a drink-driver. Normally Tess does all the driving or I'm chauffeured. This is the first time in 41 years that I have ever had any kind of driving offence." Police found the chef wandering around in a lane near his buckled vehicle, which hit the Land Rover head-on after he left himself no time to stop. No one was hurt but Floyd was held for 10 hours at a police station in Swindon after blood and breathalyser tests. His solicitor, Martin Guyll-Wiggins, said the chef was a victim of his own created image which was not "the real Floyd". He said: "The public perception of him is bon viveur, a heavy-drinking, wine-swilling, good-time sort of chap ... In private he is not that man." Floyd's TV personality was "simply an act" and he was ashamed of the drink-driving offence. He said Floyd was still suffering from an armed raid on his then home in France. Floyd was educated at Wellington school in Somerset and served as a tank officer in the army before running three restaurants in Bristol and starting a successful TV career. Magistrate Eileen Charles told him: "This is an extremely serious offence because your reading was very high and a collision has occurred. But in your favour you have pleaded guilty at the first opportunity and cooperated with the police and shown a great deal of remorse. "There has also been a loss of earnings on your part and health problems." Floyd, who now lives in Faringdon, Oxfordshire, said: "I was guilty as charged. I'm totally ashamed. I am mortified. The police were very courteous and I will write to thank them."