 The writer of Appropriate Adult, the ITV drama starring Dominic West as the serial killer Fred West, to be broadcast on Sunday, has defended his decision to tackle the Cromwell Road murders."I work on the principle that those subjects that are the most difficult are those you should most look at," said Neil McKay. "That goes for all aspects of life – but it is one of the prime purposes of drama, and has been since the Greeks invented it."You could say 'Let's leave it to the criminologists and newspapers' … but I say that drama has as much right to engage with it has any other medium."McKay, who also wrote the Bafta-winning See No Evil about the Moors Murders and Channel 4's Mo, starring Julie Walters, has told the story of Fred and Rosemary West's crimes from the point of view of trainee social worker Janet Leach.Leach, played by Emily Watson in the drama, attended police interviews after being assigned as Fred West's "appropriate adult" – essentially a volunteer who ensures the accused understands what he is being told."You hope that if you take a point of view that doesn't put you behind the murderer's eyes, that does away with the difficulty of what you wouldn't want to do, which is portray the crimes," McKay said. "It becomes about the consequences of the crime."Appropriate Adult shows how West manipulated Leach and confided in her about undiscovered victims, exploiting the duty of confidentiality she owed him, which prevented her telling the police about his further crimes.The two-part drama has taken about three years to come to screen after in-depth research into the murders in Gloucester, with the help of Gloucestershire Police, with some interview scenes close to the transcript of the police interviews."It was not a journey we took lightly," McKay said of making the programme.Some have questioned whether the drama should ever have been made – including one of Fred West's daughters, Anne Marie Davis, who said the thought of the dramatisation made her feel "physically sick", and condemned it as an attempt to make money from the murders.McKay responded by saying that people were right to ask questions about whether the drama should be made – and that he takes objections seriously."She [Anne Marie Davis] is absolutely entitled to say what she wants about the programme and of course we think about it, and ask ourselves whether this is the right thing. In the end I think it is. Other relatives feel very strongly that it should be discussed and out in the open.""Making these things unspeakable is only a way of helping people to think that they can never happen again."The ITV team behind the drama has previously produced two acclaimed dramas about murder investigations: See No Evil: The Moors Murders, and This is Personal: The Hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper.Dominic West, who starred in Baltimore detective series The Wire, has admitted that he thought carefully before accepting the role of the murderer. When the killer is arrested he appears to be more affable than evil – far from a monster who would be charged with the murder of 12 women.Such a portrayal is essential to the drama, McKay said. "He was murdering people for 25 years and that takes a lot of doing, especially when it's so close to home. What was the reason?"West was genuinely charming and plausible and able to present a version of humanity that other people found really acceptable. That's the shape of our story really, that even after he was arrested he manipulated people to get what he wanted."Viewers will not, however, come out sympathising with West. "You're left in no doubt that West is a psychopath. But I think it would have been a massive cop-out to portray him just as an evil serial killer," said McKay. "Everybody who came into contact with him – even after his arrest – was in some way charmed by him. It would have been a cop-out to avoid his charm. It's the point, really."The first part of Appropriate Adult is broadcast on Sunday at 9pm on ITV1