Few observers would want to argue with Lord Justice Auld's unromantic view of courts as "a blunt instrument of social repair". At the start of yesterday's massive report into the reform of the criminal courts, he sets out some important qualifications to their role: "We should not expect too much of the criminal justice system, the courts in particular, as a medium for curing the ills of society." He notes some of their traditional punitive roles - reparations, deterrence and rehabilitation - but accepts that they are all too often the last resort after all other attempts at reform have failed.What the judge's report will itself be judged by is the degree to which his new court structure would improve the quality of justice. Some of the 300 recommendations can be unreservedly welcomed. Early fears that his review would lead to the replacement of the 30,000 magistrates by professional stipendiaries (now known as district judges) have proved groundless. Recent research has suggested magistrates are no cheaper than stipendiaries, but the quality of justice cannot be judged by price alone. Magistrates may need to be more representative; but they are more courteous to defendants, use simpler language and show more concern to distressed witnesses than stipendiaries. Moreover, in a society sending far too many people to prison, their remand and imprisonment rates are half as high. There should be no objections in principle to Auld replacing the present two tiers (magistrates and crown courts) with three, with an intermediate court comprising a judge and two lay magistrates hearing cases where the sentence is expected to be less than two years. Trials would be speeded up by his reform of pre-trial hearings. Juries would have a much clearer understanding of the trial process through his proposed written summaries and issues. And the Auld report is right to make juries more representative by removing exempted professions (two out of three people escape their call), even though ministers, in the interest of protecting the random selection process, have rejected his idea of ensuring ethnic representation where race is likely to be a relevant issue. This was a ministerial mistake. Where Auld goes seriously wrong is in tilting the balance of the justice system far too much in the direction of the courts and the establishment. Defendants would no longer have the right to opt for jury trials in "either-way" cases where they currently have a choice. Auld suggests courts should decide, though defendants would have a right of appeal. Twice in recent years governments have sought to abolish this right, then faced resistance from parliament. Resistance must be maintained, because Auld would sweep away jury trials for a wide range of offences, including assault, drugs and theft. Ministers have already signalled their readiness, in respect of murder, to reform the double jeopardy rule, which precludes second trials despite the emergence of new evidence. Auld would extend it much further, but ministers should wait and watch their more limited change. More disturbing still is Auld's support for wider use of a defendant's previous convictions. Where Auld undermines his own credibility is in his attack on "perverse" jury verdicts and his wish to make them subject to appeal. The number of such cases can be counted on two hands - Clive Ponting's prosecution for leaking ministerial duplicity on the sinking of the Belgrano being the most famous - but they remain a crucial element in English law. Neither judges nor prosecutors are always right.