The teenage killer who shot schoolboy Rhys Jones dead as he walked home from football practice was sentenced yesterday to a minimum of 22 years in jail for murder, as a trial judge condemned what he termed his brutality and cowardice.Sean Mercer, 18, a member of the Crocky Crew gang, who was 16 when he fired the fatal bullet from a Smith and Wesson revolver, was unanimously convicted on Monday afternoon after the jury deliberated for three and a half days at Liverpool crown court.Mercer, in a black striped shirt, pursed his lips and puffed out his cheeks as Mr Justice Irwin sentenced him.Rhys's parents, Melanie and Stephen, were in court as Mercer and two co-defendants were sentenced. Rhys's mother wept as the guilty verdicts were returned. Yesterday, the Jones family said they were pleased justice had been done for their son.The judge told Mercer that Rhys died "because of your brutality and because you are a coward"."His death was a tragedy for him and for his family, a waste of a promising young life," he said. "His parents' dignity has been deeply impressive to any of us who have seen it."Irwin said the offence arose from the "stupid, brutal gang conflict" which had struck the part of Liverpool where Mercer lived. "You were caught up in that from a young age but it is clear you gloried in it. It is wrong to let anyone glorify or romanticise this kind of gang conflict."The judge said the offence took place within a day of the first anniversary of another killing, that of Liam Smith from Norris Green, by other members of the Crocky gang. Smith died in August 2006 when he was ambushed outside Altcourse prison. "I have no doubt that you were well aware of that," Irwin told Mercer."You are not soldiers, you have no discipline, no training, no honour. You do not command respect." He told Mercer he was a selfish, shallow criminal "remarkable only by the danger you pose to others". 'Cowardice'The judge said CCTV evidence showed Mercer hunting for his intended victims before his aggression "became alloyed with cowardice" as he fired at them from 70 yards, with bystanders all around and cars moving across the car park in the moments before he fired. Mercer then systematically attempted to avoid being arrested, "destroying evidence and pressurising witnesses," the judge added. He told Mercer he would not be released until he was "on the verge of being a middle-aged man".The alleged intended target of the bullet that killed Rhys was Wayne Brady, 20, an alleged member of the rival Nogga Dogz gang.Six others were convicted of assisting an offender - a 16-year-old boy who cannot be identified, and James Yates, 20, Nathan Quinn, 18, Melvin Coy, 25, Gary Kays, 26, and Dean Kelly, 17, all from Liverpool. Kelly was also convicted of possessing a firearm and ammunition. Coy and Kays were sentenced to seven years for assisting an offender. The others will be sentenced next year.The shooting of Rhys prompted international revulsion, and epitomised the contrasting worlds that exist in north Liverpool, and which collided with awful consequences on 22 August 2007 when Rhys walked into the line of fire.Law-abiding residents, such as Rhys and his family, lead quiet lives in their red-brick homes with neat lawns on Croxteth Park. The estate is close to a country park of the same name, the former ancestral home of the Earls of Sefton. The Channel 4 soap Brookside was filmed there.But a mile to the north and east, via a maze of footpaths, are the estates of Croxteth and Norris Green, where two gangs battle for supremacy over the L11 postcode: the Crocky Crew and Nogga Dogz. In four years, police say there have been 80 incidents of vandalism and violence linked to the two gangs, who are waging a campaign for control of turf for drug dealing. Since the shooting, the violence has waned but not been extinguished.The gangs are obsessed with guns, knives, souped-up cars, vicious dogs and quad bikes. Their arrogance is underlined by the videos they post on YouTube. One from the Crocky gang appeared to show the grimy revolver that killed Rhys.The Fir Tree pub car park in the pleasant suburb of Croxteth Park was the unlikely focus of the dispute between the gangs. When Nogga Dogz gang member Wayne Brady strayed into the hostile territory with two friends, his presence drew the rival Crocky gang member, Mercer, to the pub. He shot at Brady's friends, but hit Rhys as he walked home from football practice in his England shirt.The shooting prompted an outcry. Gordon Brown described it as "a heinous crime that has shocked the whole of the country." Rhys was, and still is, the youngest victim of gang violence in Britain.Destroyed evidenceSmall for his age, Rhys was the star player of the Fir Tree under-12s football team and a season ticket holder at Everton, attending most home matches with his father and older brother, Owen, now 18. He was looking forward to starting secondary school after finishing at Broad Square primary, where he had performed well in his Sats. He was bright and popular, and had a loyal group of friends, all football-mad like him. A community centre in his name will be constructed at Croxteth Park at a cost of £1.5m. Rhys's team had just finished penalties practice, with Rhys in goal. The team's coach had offered him a lift but he chose to walk the short distance home.When he was killed, Rhys was a few hundred yards from his family's extended semi in Crompton Drive. He was thrown to the ground by a single bullet that struck him in the neck, killing him instantly. Detective Superintendent Dave Kelly, who led the murder investigation, said: "I have been a police officer for nearly 30 years and this investigation has been the most challenging and moving investigation I have ever had to deal with."At the time it was said that Rhys was in the wrong place at the wrong time. [His parents] took exception, as he was doing what he was entitled to do: travelling home alone from football practice."Within minutes of the shooting, Mercer gathered his gangland friends and associates so he could set about destroying evidence - his clothing, bicycle and the murder weapon, a .455 Smith and Wesson revolver originating from the first world war. Within an hour, Mercer was driven to an industrial estate in Kirkby owned by co-defendant Melvin Coy. His clothes were covered in petrol and burned.Mercer's name had been given to detectives by members of the public and was already being bandied around Liverpool, appearing on websites and graffiti. A Crimewatch programme aired last September resulted in 12 people phoning in to give Mercer's name. Det Supt Kelly said from an early stage Mercer's name had been given to them, but they needed to gather more evidence for a prosecution.Mercer was so fearful of reprisals because of the public outcry, he often took to hiding in the boot of friends' cars as he was driven around the city.Three days after the murder, on 25 August, police made a number of arrests, including Mercer. There was insufficient evidence then to charge him with murder. It took police eight months to gather surveillance on the suspects' families and secure the evidence of a teenage informer, as well as obtaining witness accounts discrediting Mercer's alibi, before the charge could be brought. Phone calls between his co-defendants proved crucial.On the night of the killing, Mercer was with a 17-year-old friend when got a call alerting him that Brady was close to the Fir Tree pub. The dark-haired teenager, dressed all in black, pedalled to James Yates's home, where he was given a gun that he stuffed in his jacket pocket.Police say he intended to shoot at Brady and his friends. At 7.28pm he fired three shots at them. None of the bullets hit their intended targets, but one struck Rhys. Realising what he had done, Mercer rode away furiously, with his hood up, causing a motorist to swerve to avoid him.The gun used to kill Rhys was found in the loft of Mercer's 17-year-old friend four days later. The boy was on holiday in Florida with his family and was arrested on his return, later becoming a crucial witness in exchange for immunity from prosecution. Mercer's bike was taken to a field in Kirkby. It was found by a local man who later realised its significance and contacted police.Detectives established that Mercer had his bike stolen in February 2007, which he reported to police. A replacement bike provided by an insurance company had the same serial number as the one dumped. Det Supt Kelly said the £400 bike was the most expensive thing Mercer possessed "yet he was prepared to dispose of it within 24 hours of the killing". Eight months after the shooting, on 15 April, 11 people were arrested in a series of dawn raids and six further arrests were made the same day. Mercer was charged with murder and appeared before Liverpool magistrates two days later.By the time the case came to trial, Mercer had grown a few inches. He no longer seemed nervous, giving his mother the thumbs-up and gently but vehemently shaking his head when the prosecution outlined the case against him."He has involved others to distance himself from this crime and destroyed evidence that would implicate him," Det Supt Kelly said. "He has not been remorseful at any stage in our dealings with him. He has shown no remorse whatsoever."