Two men were arrested today over the murder of special constable Nisha Patel-Nasri, Scotland Yard said.A 37-year-old man, from north London, and a 41-year-old man, from east London, were held in the early hours of this morning and are currently in custody at separate London police stations. Detectives also recovered a light-coloured Audi A4 from a street in south-west London. It is believed to be the car police had previously appealed for information on, after it was captured on CCTV close to the scene of the murder in north-west London.Ms Patel-Nasri, 29, was killed by a single stab wound to her groin, outside her home in Sudbury Avenue, Wembley, on May 11.She had been alone that evening - her husband having gone out - and detectives believe she left the house in her nightclothes after hearing a disturbance. Neighbours reported hearing loud noises in the street and Ms Patel-Nasri scream out. They found her in the street, having been stabbed with a knife from her own kitchen.Police believe she may have gone outside to confront burglars who may have been trying to get into the house. The murder may be linked to an incident the previous week, when three men attempted to break in through the front door.But they have not ruled out the possibility that Ms Patel-Nasri's death may be connected to someone she came into contact with through her work as a special constable or somebody who had had dealings with her husband, Fadi Nasri, and his limousine business.Police recovered the John Lewis 'Evolution' cook's knife four months after the killing. It is understood that traces of DNA were found on the knife and may help identify her killer.In September police said tracking down the Audi was a major line of inquiry. The car first appeared on CCTV about an hour before the murder, travelling along Harrowdene Road, which is parallel to Sudbury Avenue. It approached a junction and appeared to turn left into East Lane, but less than a minute later it was spotted coming back around the corner into Harrowdene Road. A man was also spotted running practically alongside the car.About two or three minutes after the murder, the Audi was spotted again coming up Harrowdene Road towards the junction with East Lane. This time the car stopped short of the lights for several seconds, then pulled up at the lights, which were red, but edged forward, its driver seemingly impatient to get though them. When the lights changed it sped off right towards Preston Road.Ms Patel-Nasri has been praised by colleagues as a lively and dedicated officer, committed to helping her local community.Police are continuing to appeal for witnesses and a £40,000 reward has been offered for information that leads to a prosecution.