The kids on Myatts Field housing estate in Brixton never bought the government's line that violent crime has been falling for a decade. The shootings, stabbings and casual flashing of weaponry told them it was much higher, and it looks like they were right.Last month, the  home office admitted that a significant amount of serious violent crime had been downgraded in police reports for longer than anyone knows. Some police forces have been recording an attempt to kill or injure as "serious violence against a person" but others had decided that if the attacker didn't succeed, it wasn't so serious. The newly recalibrated figures show a 22% year-on-year increase in incidents of serious violence with intent to harm.There are also other question marks hanging over the statistics. A former home office crime consultant told the  BBC the government had been "hiding behind" its changes in the crime counting rules. Considering Labour made crime fighting a key promise during the 1997 election, it's no surprise to find that the government and opposition are arguing about what the figures really mean. But the argument is as pointless as the statistics are useless. While politicians sling and dodge mud, they waste the best opportunity in decades to address inner city crime. Whichever side of the political divide you sit on, there is no question that there is a major problem in inner cities. I spent a couple of months around various housing estates in London. Teenagers sitting in takeaways described another world where "crews" were involved in feuds and non-gang members were described as "civilians". I would ask about recently reported stabbings, or even murders, in the local area and be given a detailed description of what the victim had done to deserve his "punishment" or whether he was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. The catalogue of tit-for-tat violence resembles feuds in Pakistan's tribal areas. On Green Hills Estate in North London I met about 15 teenagers. All of them knew a victim of knife crime, many knew someone who had been killed, and all of them could help me find a gun. On Myatts Field Estate and in Angell Town in Brixton I met 14 and 15-year-olds who were "youngers" in the local gangs. They took orders from "elders" to hold up shops and attack rival gang members with knives, baseball bats and guns. They were too young to say whether their lives were surrounded by more violence than a decade ago, but they did think the cycle of violence in their neighbourhoods grew deadlier every few weeks. Even three years ago, one 15-year-old told me, a stabbing was serious. Now, you could get "shanked" for "dissing" someone's trainers or holding a stare a second too long. I met youngsters from different backgrounds. Some were black, some white, some from Pakistani families and others the children of refugees from Somalia and Iraq. All were intelligent and articulate, even if they couldn't read. They complained they had no youth clubs or sports centres. They had no faith that their constantly changing stand-by teachers could impart anything useful. They knew their lives were different from other teenagers who planned to go to university and take up "suit jobs". But instead of feeling envy, they took their disadvantages and infused them with a little ghetto romance. They took pride in, and even played up, the grottiness of their "ends" (areas) so they could compare them with the Bronx in New York or South Los Angeles. Three 14-year-olds in West Norwood told me they expected to die before they were 20. The last place I heard such talk from teenagers was in the Palestinian Territories. But like the Palestinians, I don't think they understood what they were saying. They were just words that helped burnish the self-image that made their lives more livable. The social policies of the last couple of decades have failed Britain's inner cities. Young upwardly mobile professionals have bought homes in places like Brixton but their presence has done little for the children of the original residents apart from create low-paid, part-time jobs waiting tables in trendy cafes.The only remaining option is large-scale investment in educational as well as social infrastructure. And it looks like the coming recession could provide an opportunity for just that. The chancellor and prime minister have said the government will undertake large scale public spending to counter the recession. But just throwing money around is not the answer. The families of these inner city communities need support and their local economies need to be rebuilt. Many of the youngsters I met referred to abusive family members with drink or drug problems, or parents with serious illness. Others talked about families that didn't speak English and had no idea of the tightrope their children walked to earn acceptance in today's street culture. All of the teenagers thought well-paying jobs could be found in the City, but they weren't for people like them. "Rich people guard those jobs for their kids." But, they saw the trappings of luxury and were all agreed their only route to similar lifestyles would be through crime. As the economy recovers and the government looks at changing our previous economic model, which relied on financial services to power job and wealth creation, it might be worth helping small businesses in inner cities create meaningful employment that offers a livable wage. Properly paid and supported teachers, career advisors and social workers should be able to help youngsters understand and unlock the employment and educational opportunities that remained closed to their parents and older siblings. It's going to cost a lot of money. But if it looks like the government is going to spend it anyway, it's worth spending it on parts of the country that have needed it for a long time.