 4.58pm BST Afternoon summary• The government has issued a “lines to take” document for its MPs as the row over David Cameron's pledge to compel energy suppliers to offer all of their customers their lowest tariff grows. Arriving in Brussels for an EU summit, the prime minister said: “We are going to use the forthcoming legislation, the energy bill coming up this year, so we make sure, we ensure, that customers get the lowest tariffs.” Labour has described the government as creating "chaos" by "making up policy on the hoof" and the proposals have been questioned by several business leaders.• Ministers are facing the prospect of having to abandon the controversial cull of badgers in England, for this year at least, due to fast-rising costs, the Guardian has learned. The cull, aimed at curbing the rising infections of tuberculosis (TB) in cattle, is running out of time to begin before winter weather means the badgers lie low in their setts. The environment secretary, Owen Paterson, and farming minister David Heath cancelled a series of interviews on Thursday, but department officials said there was no U-turn.• Opening the SNP's annual conference in Perth, Alex Salmond has told his party's activists they can win the 2014 referendum if popular support for his devolved government can be converted into backing for independence. His address came as another poll, the third to do so this week, showed falling support for independence. He said: If we're trusted because of our track record in administration, is that not the platform to say 'if you trust this government to run the health services, the education system, local government and social services, shouldn't we be trusted to run the economy, run defence, to run Scotland's international representation'?• Hundreds of people from business, environment, trade union, faith and women's groups protested outside the Treasury urging George Osborne to promote green energy and businesses.• MPs have called on the government to reverse plans to close 2nd Battalion, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers (2RRF), in a Commons vote. Following more than three hours of debate, Tory John Baron forced MPs into the division lobbies to underline the strength of feeling on the backbenches. Thanks for all your comments today. I hope you didn't miss Andrew too much!Updated at 5.04pm BST 4.49pm BST 'Right issue, wong approach' Will Straw, on Left Foot Forward, writes that David Cameron is right to focus on energy bills but has taken the wrong approach. Instead of announcing a populist measure that will be hard to enforce and likely to prove counter-productive, the government needs to put enhanced competition and the protection of vulnerable consumers at the heart of its approach to the energy market.This could include Ofgem limiting the number of tariffs so consumers are less bamboozled. Ofgem should certainly expand licensing requirements so all tariffs - including fixed-term tariffs and those with introductory discounts - reflect the true cost of energy. They should increase the transparency of its published estimates of suppliers’ costs since this would allow new entrants to identify efficiencies and challenge the power of the incumbents. Improving the liquidity of the wholesale market would be another route to encourage competition in energy supply, which should help bring down costs. 4.27pm BST Cameron comments again on energy tariffsArriving in Brussels for an EU summit today, PA quotes the prime minister as saying he wants to be on the side of hard-pressed people "who struggle to pay energy bills".  That's what I said in the House of Commons yesterday. We are going to use the forthcoming legislation, the energy bill coming up this year, so we make sure, we ensure, that customers get the lowest tariffs. 3.57pm BST Cost of badger cull may force U-turnIt never rains but it pours. After rowing back on the promise to make energy companies offer the lowest tariff available to all their customers, another possible U-turn could be on the cards with respect to the badger cull, although the government is denying it. The Guardian's head of environment, Damian Carrington, writes: Ministers are facing the prospect of having to abandon the controversial cull of badgers in England, for this year at least, due to fast-rising costs, the Guardian has learned.The cull, aimed at curbing the rising infections of tuberculosis (TB) in cattle, is running out of time to begin before winter weather means the badgers lie low in their setts. The environment secretary, Owen Paterson, and farming minister David Heath cancelled a series of interviews on Thursday, but department officials said there was no U-turn: "There is no change to the badger cull policy. We want the cull to happen as soon as possible."Updated at 4.10pm BST 3.48pm BST John Hayes's 'masterclass in rhetoric'The performance of energy minister John Hayes answering the urgent question on energy price policy in the Commons today has generated a mixture of admiration, disbelief and ridicule. The FT's Jim Pickard has hit the nail on the head (£): The venue, House of Commons. The star of the show; John Hayes, newly-installed energy minister.No matter that Hayes was defending a policy shambles – over energy tariffs – that has been unravelling by the second.This was a masterclass in rhetoric to rival Boris Johnson or even, in the words of the Speaker, the great orator Demosthenes himself.Even one Labour observer admitted it was one of the most watchable performances he had seen in the Commons.Hayes had been handed a dog’s breakfast but presented it to Parliament as if it was the most sumptuous of platters.Pressed as to why the prime minister had promised to shift everyone on to the lowest energy tariff – a policy that makes almost no logical sense* – he channelled Tony Blair on the death of Princess Diana.“We will take the necessary steps to ensure the people get the best possible [energy] deal, for we are the people’s party and the people’s government.”Updated at 4.08pm BST 3.21pm BST Friends of the Earth: 'Wean economy off fossil fuels'Friends of the Earth’s executive director Andy Atkins has echoed the comments by Greenpeace on energy price policy, saying the government should concentrate on reducing dependency on gas. Atkins said: Cash-strapped households will continue to struggle with rising fuel bills while our energy system remains hooked on increasingly costly gas.Government must protect people from rising gas prices by helping to insulate heat-leaking homes and launching a clean energy revolution to wean the economy off of fossil fuels. 3.08pm BST Government issues 'lines to take' on energy pricesPolitics Home's Paul Waugh has obtained a copy of the latest coalition lines to take on the energy prices mess and, as he says, it makes fascinating reading. Here's an extract from the "hostile questions" section: Q: This announcement seemed to come out of nowhere did anyone know what the Prime Minister was going to say?What the Prime Minister said simply builds on the agreement we made in April with the major energy suppliers that they would write to their customers every year to tell them what the best tariff is for them and how to get it. We’ve been working on this across government since last October’s energy summit. What we want to do is take the hassle factor out for the consumer and put the obligation on the energy company. As you’d expect the detail will be fully consulted on but we want to use the law to support those who are saving to support their aspirations.Q: If everyone is moved to the cheapest tariff won’t that mean that there’s only one tariff?This is not about taking away consumer choice but putting the emphasis on the energy company to give people who want to get on value for money. We recognise that different people have different needs. What this is aimed at is ensuring that suppliers take responsibility for what they charge especially on the vulnerable. 3.01pm BST 'Has the PM just killed energy retail competition?'That is the question Deutsche Bank has asked in an analysis of comments featured on the Guardian's Market Forces blog. The bank says:Following the end of energy price discounting and doorstep selling, the prime minister appeared effectively to kill customer switching yesterday when he announced that all energy retailers would be forced by law to give customers the cheapest tariffs. While actual proposed legislation seems not to involve compulsion, political tolerance of retail profits is dwindling.It goes on to sayIf regulation replaces competition to control margins, allowed profits could be squeezed given the very limited capital involved in retailing.Interestingly, it says one of the companies most at risk from this is SSE, which has given a tentative welcome to Cameron's announcement. 2.34pm BST 'Recognise economy's green potential' say protestersAs the row rumbles on over the government's policy on energy prices, protesters have called on George Osborne to recognise the green economy's potential. Duncan Clark writes: Deborah Meaden, the businesswoman and TV "Dragon", on Thursday attacked what she said was the failure of the chancellor, George Osborne, to promote green energy and businesses, as she led hundreds from business, environment, trade union, faith and women's groups in a protest outside the Treasury.Meaden, a Dragon's Den judge, told the Guardian: "Osborne needs to overcome his blindness for green issues. Businesses need a framework – clarity and stability. You can't get the green economy going without knowing what you're aiming for."The protest, organised by Stop Climate Chaos, saw campaigners don green hard-hats to promote their message that "green is working" – a reference to the fact that the low-carbon sector is one of the few parts of the UK economy to have generated growth and jobs in recent years, as highlighted by the CBI in July.As part of Thursday's protest, leaders from campaign groups such as the RSPB, the Women's Institute and Greenpeace delivered a joint letter to the prime minister, David Cameron, calling on him to maintain support for the UK's carbon targets, resist calls to build more fossil fuel infrastructure and focus instead on stimulating green growth.   Deborah Meaden is seen among representatives from across civil society and business who gathered outside the Treasury during a Stop Climate Chaos coalition protest to ask the government for more active support for the green economy and green jobs, London on 18 October 2012. Photograph: Stop Climate Chaos coalitionUpdated at 3.22pm BST 2.24pm BST Leading energy supplier backs CameronOne of the UK's leading energy suppliers, SSE (formerly Scottish and Southern Energy), has tentatively backed the prime minister on his comments concerning legislation to compel companies to give their lowest tariff to their customers. A spokesman said: Further detail on the announcement is still required but SSE has long been campaigning for an intervention by Government to ensure that differential pricing, as undertaken by some of SSE's competitors, is banned. For too long some companies have undercharged, in particular, customers who sign up online, at the expense of those without access to the internet. It is not fair and discourages trust in the market.SSE has just three tariffs available to all customers, whether new or existing, and regardless of sales channel. Prices only vary by payment method, if customers choose to fix their tariff, or if customers choose electronic billing. Other suppliers should follow our lead and we hope to work with government to ensure that this practice is enshrined across the industry.Updated at 2.35pm BST 1.23pm BST Lunchtime summary• The prime minister's announcement that energy companies would be forced by law to offer customers the cheapest tariffs appeared to be in limbo today after the Department of Energy and Climate Change refused to confirm it would be implemented and it emerged it was not told about it in advance. Labour accused the government of creating "chaos". In response to an urgent question in the Commons, energy minister John Hayes fell short of confirming the pledge made on Wednesday by the prime minister as he told MPs that a "number of options" were being considered to "get people lower tariffs". Meanwhile, energy secretary Ed Davey, speaking at a CBI event, could not provide any further details and a source told the Guardian he did not know about the announcement in advance.• The scrapping of the education maintenance allowance (EMA) in England, aimed at helping poorer 16- to 17-year-olds stay on at school, was a mistake, the government's social mobility tsar says in a new report. Former Labour minister Alan Milburn says all universities should give guaranteed interviews and lower A-level offers to poorer pupils. He also calls on top institutions to sponsor an academy school in an disadvantaged area as well as provide bright poor pupils with the chance to study for a foundation degree if they have lower grades than they would usually ask for.• MPs will be given the chance to vote on Andrew Mitchell's row with Downing Street police officers after Labour said it would use an opposition day debate on Wednesday to discuss the police. The prime minister has rejected calls to sack the chief whip, despite reports that even Tory colleagues think the chief whip is "toast". Mitchell has denied calling the officers "plebs", but has apologised for swearing and not showing enough respect.• The government has welcomed figures showing that crime in England and Wales has fallen by a further 6% in the past year and the chances of becoming a crime victim are at their lowest since the early 1980s. Crime prevention minister Jeremy Browne said: "Chief constables are rising to the challenge of making efficiency savings and providing greater value for money. As HMIC [the chief inspector of constabulary] has said, the frontline is being protected. Police reform is working."• The Scottish National Party annual conference opens in Perth today with a row brewing over the issue of Nato membership. Tomorrow, the conference will be asked to ditch 30 years of policy by accepting that an independent Scotland should be a member of Nato while maintaining the party’s opposition to nuclear weapons. Party members have attacked the SNP leadership for putting politics ahead of principle.• Retail sales volumes rose 0.6% in September, slightly better than expected, following an upwardly revised 0.1% fall in August, the Office for National Statistics (ONS) said. City experts had predicted a 0.4% increase. Sales were boosted by shoppers buying warmer clothing and back-to-school attire.• The Commons speaker John Bercow is trying to block the publication of details of MPs' expenses which could show if they are renting their taxpayer-funded homes to each other, the Telegraph reported. He has reportedly written to the regulator urging it not to release documents revealing the identities of MPs' landlords for security reasons.Updated at 3.34pm BST 12.54pm BST Which? calls on Cameron to fulfil energy prices pledgeWhich?, the consumer group that wrote a strongly-worded open letter to the prime minister calling for an independent review into energy bills before his surprise announcement, is urging him not to backtrack. Executive director Richard Lloyd said: The prime minister must stick to the promise he made in parliament to legislate so energy companies have to give the lowest tariff to their customers. Just giving people information on the lowest tariff is not enough when trust is at an all-time low in the industry and switching levels are falling. Which? has been pressing the Government for years to make sure people get a better deal so we must now see these words turned into action. 12.48pm BST 'Linguistic acrobatics' by energy ministerHere is the Guardian's latest story on the energy prices row, by Hélène Mulholland. She writes: In a half hour Q&A session which prompted one Labour MP to accuse Hayes of "linguistic acrobatics", the energy minister fell short of confirming the pledge made by the prime minister on Wednesday as he told MPs that a "number of options" were being considered to "get people lower tariffs".Updated at 1.11pm BST 12.13pm BST Federation of Small Businesses joins criticism of energy prices policyJohn Walker, national chair of the Federation of Small Businesses, has joined those warning that compelling energy companies to offer all of their customers their lowest tariff could damage competition. He said: The prime minister's determination to tackle rising energy bills is very welcome. We want to see plans for the big six energy companies to put their customers on the cheapest tariff extended to micro-businesses too. However, there is a very real risk that forcing energy companies to put customers on the cheapest tariff could lead to price fixing and erode what little competition there is in the market. 11.56am BST Energy secretary knew nothing about PM's announcement.The Guardian's head of environment, Damian Carrington, is back from the CBI energy event at which energy secretary Ed Davey spoke. Damian can confirm through a source that - as shadow energy secretary Caroline Flint suggested - Davey knew nothing about Cameron's cheap bills pledge before it was made. He adds: Davey was unable to explain what the prime minister's announcement meant, beyond pointing back to a voluntary agreement brokered with energy companies in April to inform customers about cheaper tariffs. Asked whether Cameron's pledge meant energy companies would only be able to offer one tariff – the cheapest – he said: “Ensuring consumers face the lowest bills possible is a priority for me. We have been in discussions across government. Ofgem has been talking about fewer tariffs and simpler bills and that is the direction of travel.”Neil Bentley, deputy director of the CBI, which is urging the government to end its feuding over energy policy and back the green economy, told the Guardian: “We are seeking policy clarity like everybody else. If competition is to work, consumers have to have a choice of tariffs. I'm not quite sure where the prime minister was coming from.”Damian added: Davey has dissociated himself from the "green Taliban" insult reportedly used by chancellor George Osborne to disparage those supporting the fast growing green economy. He said: “I have found green NGOs extremely helpful and constructive. They have a really important role to play.” 11.41am BST Quotes from energy prices debateHere are some fuller quotes from the Commons debate after Labour asked an urgent question on energy prices.Energy minister John Hayes used the words "best" and lower", rather than "lowest", when referring to tariffs. He said: Following the prime minister's announcement yesterday I am pleased to confirm we will be bringing forward legislation to help energy consumers to get the best deal ...We will use the energy bill to get people lower tariffs and of course there are different options to be considered in that process. "But those options will be discussed with the industry, they will be discussed with consumer groups and more than all of that they will be effective in a way that only this government and, I'm bound to say, that this minister, is well known for ...There are a number of options that are being considered, for example a voluntary agreement with energy suppliers announced in April secured a number of measures which will be evaluated to see if we should make legislation binding. Asked whether he knew about the prime minister's announcement in advance, he said he knew "what the prime minister was considering": Of course we understand what the prime minister was considering because we have been debating and discussing the provisions of the energy bill for months."Shadow energy secretary Caroline Flint said:  Yesterday the prime minister threw energy policy into confusion, caused chaos in the energy industry and I think I have to say it left his own ministers at a loss over what government energy policy actually is ...Now it appears energy companies will not be forced to put all customers on cheaper tariffs after all." ...We all mis-speak from time to time and the prime minister was under a lot of pressure yesterday. But for the government to spend a day pretending to have a policy they have no intention of implementing is no way to run the country. It is like something out of The Thick of It. 11.29am BST Vote granted on 'plebgate'Despite the prime minister's backing, Andrew Mitchell's position still looks far from secure after his row with Downing Street police. The Sun's political editor, Tom Newton Dunn, tweets that MPs will be given a vote on the issue on Wednesday.Tom Newton Dunn (@tnewtondunn)BREAKING: MPs will be given a vote on the Andrew Mitchell saga - Opposition Day debate next Weds.October 18, 2012Updated at 11.38am BST 10.57am BST Withering verdict on energy prices policyHayes's performance in the Commons has done nothing to clear up the mess, is the verdict of journalists on Twitter.Philip Webster (@philwebsteTimes)Cheap energy bills unravel #omnishamblesOctober 18, 2012joeyjones (@joeyjonessky)peculiar self-congratulatory tone from john hayes. on the substance, he says bill will ensure "lower tariffs"; pm had said "lowest"October 18, 2012Tom Newton Dunn (@tnewtondunn)Oh dear. John Hayes rows back from PM's new energy tariff law and also ducks whether he knew it was coming in PMQs. #energi-shamblesOctober 18, 2012Patrick O'Flynn (@oflynnexpress)Oh dear, that Cam energy policy I just backed does not actually seem to be the policy... #omniwotsit againOctober 18, 2012Matt Chorley (@MattChorley)John Hayes is producing Commons gold in not answering any questions on Cameron's troubled energy bills plan. Lots of words, no detail at allOctober 18, 2012 10.48am BST Hayes: 'There are different options to be discussed'Hayes says people know he is not partisan but then goes on to lambast Labour's record on energy prices during its time in power.He says "of course" he knew ahead of Cameron's announcement, although then refers to knowing that discussion was taking place over the energy bill rather than confirming he knew about the specific details of what the prime minister said. He says: We will use the energy bill to get people lower tariffs and of course there are different options to be discussed in that process.Those options will be discussed with companies, customers etc.So, he fails to confirm that companies will be compelled to offer the lowest tariff for each customer, as Cameron announced. This has the feel of another government U-turn ...Updated at 4.10pm BST 10.41am BST Urgent question on energy pricesFlint responds by describing the policy as "chaos". She points out that "now it appears energy companies will not be forced to put customers on low tariffs after all".She asks for confirmation of whether what Cameron said yesterday was correct and also if Hayes knew about the announcement.Flint asks when the policy will be implemented and how will it work.She says the government spent a day pretending to have a policy it had no intention of implementing. She describes the government's actions as like "something out of The Thick of It".Updated at 10.47am BST 10.37am BST Urgent question on energy pricesShadow energy secretary Caroline Flint asks energy minister John Hayes for a statement. Hayes says: I am pleased to confirm we will be bringing forward legislation to help energy customers get the best deal ...There are a number of options being considered ...This is a complicated area.Updated at 10.46am BST 10.34am BST Greenpeace on energy prices policyGreenpeace executive director John Sauven said the government should be concentrating on reducing reliance on gas, rather than creating "confusion". He said: The government’s energy policy is now as confusing as British Gas tariffs. Even if what Cameron announced yesterday was actual policy, it would fail to protect consumers from higher bills. Until the government reduces our reliance on gas, the cheapest tariff will still be an expensive tariff."The CBI said again this morning what businesses and families have been telling Osborne for months - gas is expensive and polluting and likely to drive up bills. Osborne must listen to the CBI’s latest warning that capping investment in clean energy will only mean more gas and higher bills. 10.31am BST Ed Davey sheds no light on energy prices policyDavey has been speaking at an event with business group CBI on the energy bill (the reason he will not be in parliament to answer the urgent question) but did not provide any further detail on the prime minister's announcement yesterday, tweets the Guardian's head of environment, Damian Carrington.Damian Carrington (@dpcarrington)#energyUK. Davey comprehensively fails to explain Cameron's #energy tariff pledge. No surprise given it was total surpriseOctober 18, 2012Some quotes from Davey at the CBI event from PA: Making sure we have competitive markets and consumers face the lowest energy bills possible is a top priority for me.He pointed to voluntary agreements secured earlier this year, under which the major energy firms would tell customers what the best available tariffs were.  We are looking at how that can be built on, and how we can drive switching arrangements. We will be legislating for those arrangements in the forthcoming energy bill. 10.20am BST John Hayes to answer urgent question on energy pricesThe urgent question on energy prices is due at around 10.30am. Energy minister John Hayes will answer the question because energy secretary Ed Davey is giving a speech elsewhere. But Labour is not buying that. It claims he is only two miles away and "unwilling to defend the PM". 10.05am BST Today's papersYou can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here's the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must reads. Here's the ConservativeHome roundup of today's political stories. And here's the New Statesman's list of top 10 comment articles.Updated at 10.07am BST 9.52am BST What's coming upGood morning and welcome to Politics Live. I'm standing in for Andrew Sparrow today, who incidentally has just this morning won another award - Editorial Intelligence's best mainstream media blogger. They are big boots to fill but I'll try my best.• David Cameron's plans to compel energy companies to offer the lowest tariff available to all their customers  - announced in parliament yesterday to the surprise of some of his own officials - are "unravelling by the minute", Labour has said. There have been warnings that such a move would kill competition. Commons Speaker John Bercow has granted shadow energy secretary Caroline Flint an urgent question on the plans.• MPs' expenses are back in the headlines after the Telegraph reported that Bercow is trying to block the publication of details of MPs' expenses which could show if they are renting their taxpayer-funded homes to each other. He has reportedly written to the regulator urging it not to release documents revealing the identities of MPs' landlords for security reasons.• Also today, a controversial report on improving access to higher education by the government's adviser on child poverty and social mobility, Alan Milburn, will be published. Ahead of its launch, the former Labour cabinet minister has told the Guardian that the coalition made "a very bad mistake" when it abolished the education maintenance allowance (EMA) in England aimed at helping poorer 16- to 17-year-olds stay on at school.Updated at 10.06am BST