The only surprising thing about the director of public prosecutions (DPP) Keir Starmer's speech supporting the Human Rights Act is that anyone is surprised.First, Starmer has a long and distinguished reputation as a barrister in some of the most significant human rights cases this country has seen. Second, in many of these cases Starmer was defending the rights of those accused of crime. It's hard to imagine clearer evidence of his belief that rights apply universally than the fact that he has now crossed over to run the Crown Prosecution Service.Third, as Starmer pointed out on the Today programme, his remarks in support of the Human Rights Act relate directly to his duty as DPP of delivering an effective prosecution service that continues to evolve its support and consideration of victims' rights. Nevertheless, outrage has ensued, with claims Starmer is getting involved in party politics, and the inevitable, tired row about whether the Human Rights Act has done more for criminals or for the victims of crime.But the real myth about the Human Rights Act is that its importance can be reduced to so simple a dichotomy. One of the most-viewed articles in the Guardian last week was the story of Jamie Leigh Jones, the young American woman who told the US Senate that she was gang-raped by colleagues in Iraq and then blocked from the courts through a confidentiality clause in her employment contract. Jones's story sparked international outrage, and a new law was passed by the Senate last week, which will prevent the US government from awarding lucrative contracts to corporations whose practices shield them from public scrutiny and deny employees access to justice.American legislators were not unanimous in their enthusiasm for redressing the situation. Among the 30 Republican senators who voted against the "Franken amendment" – after Senator Al Franken who proposed the change – was the former presidential candidate John McCain, who appears to believe that trivial concerns such as properly redressing violent sexual crime should not get in the way of business. Dealing with gang-rape through private arbitration is not a proposal I have ever heard a politician in this country advocate. But Jones's story is a reminder of the complex ways in which victims of crime can be penalised by sometimes unintended consequences of the legal system that is supposed to protect them.Rape victims, in this country, are entitled to enforce their right to privacy and sexual autonomy within the UK's legal system, and to be protected from degrading treatment. Private arbitration clauses cannot block access to an employment tribunal, and a tribunal, in turn, is obliged to apply the protections enshrined in the human rights act. For both of these reasons a woman in the UK law could not, as in Jones's case, be bound to private arbitration in the event of a serious sexual assault.These rights are guaranteed by the Human Rights Act, which in this country has filled gaps that the US – for all the rights enshrined in its written constitution – is still addressing. Which is not to say that the Conservatives, who enjoyed a friendly meeting with McCain earlier this week, would necessarily take us backwards – so far they have simply glossed over these questions, and it's impossible to say.It is possible, however, to report with certainty that the Human Rights Act has given a new level of legal protection to rape victims, as well as people with learning disabilities and mental health problems who have suffered crimes. This protection goes way beyond the realm of the criminal justice system, but if it takes the director of public prosecutions to make the point, then spare me the shock and outrage.