  Rebecca Aylward, of Maesteg, Wales, who went missing after visiting a friend. Photograph: South Wales Police/PATwo 15-year-old boys were questioned today on suspicion of murdering a teenage girl whose body was found in woods on Sunday morning.The family of the teenager, Rebecca Aylward, said they had been "shattered" by the death of their "very happy girl", as police appealed for information from anyone who might have seen her from early Saturday afternoon onwards.The police were tonight given an extra 36 hours to question the boys.Her mother raised the alarm that evening when Rebecca failed to return home in Maesteg, south Wales, after visiting a friend. Her body was discovered near the village of Aberkenfig in an area said to be popular with teenagers. A postmortem revealed that she died of head injuries.The family's statement said her younger brother and sister, who absolutely adored her, had been left devastated. "All the family have been shattered by her death."Rebecca, a pupil at Archbishop McGrath Catholic comprehensive school, in Tondu, Bridgend, was last seen at about 12.30pm on Saturday in Sarn Hill, Sarn. Officers searched woodland near a roadside for hours before her body was found, at about 9am on Sunday. The two boys, who live locally, were later arrested.In a joint statement with Bridgend county borough council, Rebecca's school said: "We are shocked and saddened to learn of Rebecca's death. She was a very well-liked and hard-working member of the school community."Additional youth workers and counselling services were being provided in the community, along with a hotline. Floral tributes were laid near the scene.Appealing for anyone who may have seen Rebecca on Saturday to come forward, Detective Superintendent Paul Burke, of South Wales police, said: "We need to piece together Rebecca's movements between 12:30pm on Saturday 23 October and 9am on Sunday 24 October. I would like to speak to anyone who saw Rebecca during those times or who spoke with her on the phone."