The chairman of the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), Nick Hardwick, believes his organisation is both impartial and effective. How does he claim to know this? Because, as he tells the Guardian today, the IPCC is regularly on the receiving end of brickbats from both sides in the process. The Police Federation, which represents rank and file officers, has never been slow to criticise the IPCC for what it regards as over-zealous investigation of its members. Now, as we report today, criminal lawyers who represent complainants are getting angry too. The Police Action Lawyers Group, which speaks for such specialists on the IPCC's advisory board, says there is such "increasing dismay and disillusionment" over the "consistently poor quality" of the commission's decision-making processes that it has decided to pull out.Attacks from both sides do not necessarily prove that the IPCC must be doing things about right. They could just as easily prove that the IPCC is not actually very good at its job, or even that the much-vaunted independent system established in 2004 is failing to provide the radical break with the past that its advocates have always hoped. Rather than take refuge in the football-terrace chant of "no one likes us - we don't care", Mr Hardwick would be better advised to respond directly to the detailed criticisms and get the system working better.Underpinning the lawyers' grievances is the belief that the IPCC's staff is neither competent enough nor diligent enough to change the outcomes of a process which for decades has been notoriously ineffective in satisfying complainants. The poor performance alleged against the IPCC takes many forms - slack oversight, lack of investigative rigour, a tendency to believe the police, uneven standards of practice and a widespread pattern of slow work and delay.If the lawyers are right, the IPCC must get its act together. There is no excuse for cases dragging on for periods of years. Nor is it acceptable for investigators to fail to obtain necessary evidence or carry out appropriate checks. Independent handling of cases and familiarity with policing are not incompatible. The system can be made to work better, and Mr Hardwick and the Home Office ought to bang some heads together fast to make sure that it does. But the debate needs a dose of realism too. Getting more complaints upheld is not the only way of proving that the system works. Prompt conciliation and a readiness to apologise matter too. In the end, nothing matters more than that police take complaints seriously, learn lessons and behave better in future. That's less a matter for the lawyers than for police management, accountability and culture.