The top judge in England and Wales signalled yesterday that he would support an end to mandatory life sentences for murder.Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, said he opposed laws which forced judges to impose a particular sentence whatever the circumstances. The government is expected to announce soon the terms of reference for the first comprehensive review of the law on murder for 50 years. When the former home secretary, David Blunkett, announced the review last October, he said the government remained committed to keeping the mandatory life sentence for murder. There is widespread support among judges for scrapping the mandatory penalty and leaving it open to judges to sentence according to the circumstances of the crime. They argue that far from being uniquely heinous, as home secretaries tend to insist, the circumstances around a murder range from the sadistic serial killing of children to a fatal injection by a doctor of a patient days from death who begs the doctor to relieve the agony. Lord Woolf supported the Home Office's decision to review law on murder. Asked if he favoured ending the mandatory life sentence for murder, he said: "I'm not in favour of mandatory sentences, full stop. It may not make any practical difference if you have the right definition for murder. If you intend to kill someone deliberately then a life sentence may be the only appropriate sentence. "But you can have someone who has a relative who is suffering pain of severity which someone in my position can only try to imagine, and they feel it's what that person wants - to be relieved of that misery. To treat that person as you treat someone who deliberately kills for a different purpose is very difficult." Lord Woolf was launching the first report of the Sentencing Guidelines Council, which he chairs, and the sentencing advisory panel. Both were set up to give guidance to judges and try to ensure consistency in sentencing. Judges are unhappy about the Criminal Justice Act 2003, which obliges them to impose mandatory sentences for any of 155 offences in particular circumstances. They say it prevents them from doing justice in individual cases. The rules apply to offences committed after April.