Figures showing a 14% rise in violent crime recorded by the police in England and Wales yesterday overshadowed another report showing a more stable overall crime picture, with significant falls recorded in burglary, robbery and vehicle crime.The rise in the violent crime figures was partly blamed on an increase in "binge drinking", particularly in the summer, but ministers claimed that increased reporting by victims and changes in police recording methods were also behind the increase. The results of the more authoritative British Crime Survey, also published yesterday, suggested, however, that overall crime fell by 1% in the year to September 2003 and violent crime actually went down, by 3%.Gun crime figures published separately yesterday showed a 2% rise in the last year, confirming that the increase in firearms offences appears to have passed its 2002 peak, when it rose by 34%. The number of people killed in shootings went down from 98 to 80 and armed robberies also fell, by 13%, but there was a 46% rise in the use of replica weapons. Home Office ministers insisted that the risk of becoming a victim of crime in Britain is at its the lowest for 20 years. The British Crime Survey says 27% experienced some form of crime, with 4% becoming the victim of violent crime last year. The latest quarterly update showed that there were 289,500 violent crimes recorded by the police in England and Wales between July and September 2003, a 14% increase on the 253,000 recorded in the same period in 2002. This included an 18% rise from 10,000 to 11,800 incidents involving serious violence, including murders and serious wounding. The police minister, Hazel Blears, said that much of the 14% rise in violent crime was due to an increase in the reporting of "low level" thuggery and more willingness by victims to report sex offences and domestic violence. But Paul Cavadino of Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said the figures, which compared what happened over the summer 2003 with the summer of 2002, reflected the fact that a high proportion of violence is alcohol-fuelled, ranging from fights around pubs and clubs to domestic homicides. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said that a government alcohol strategy was long overdue as the rise in violent crime was "surely a sign that the binge drinking culture is getting out of hand". Mr Blunkett yesterday outlined his "new localism" approach to police reform, including offering local communities the chance to vote on whether they want to spend more on patrol officers and other security, with the promise of matching 50-50 funding from the government. Both the British Crime Survey and the police figures show continuing falls in domestic burglary (down 2-3%), robbery (down 2%) and car crime (down 5%-8%). The BCS also shows that anxiety about violent crime and car crime has gone down in the past year as have perceptions of antisocial behaviour on the streets.