Champion jockey Kieren Fallon threw away a five-length lead in a flat race at Lingfield which he should have won "at a canter", the Old Bailey was told yesterday.The accusation that he deliberately lost came on the second day of a £2m race-fixing trial in which covert filmed surveillance of the alleged conspirators has been shown to the jury.Explaining the repeated pattern of mobile telephone calls and text messages surrounding suspect races, prosecuting counsel Jonathan Caplan QC claimed that Mr Fallon ensured his horse, Ballinger Ridge, would not be first across the finishing line.Mr Fallon appeared to stop riding, Mr Caplan said, quoting an opinion by Ray Murrihy, a leading Australian race steward retained as an expert witness. He said Mr Murrihy "notes that passing the two-furlong marker Ballinger Ridge was five or six lengths in front. But Fallon then dramatically slows his momentum to the point where he is doing virtually nothing".Mr Caplan said: "Prior to the one-furlong marker Fallon turns and looks back. The other runners are four to five lengths behind. Fallon eases the horse down, which would send the message to the horse that the race was over."Mr Fallon looked round again at the half-furlong, Mr Caplan said, but "only tries to get going again when another horse, Rye, is going past. By that time Ballinger Ridge has lost momentum. There is no legitimate reason that a jockey would need to be looking back and steadying his horse down with a furlong still to go."When you look at all the evidence in this case," Mr Caplan said, "you can be sure Fallon wanted Rye to be the winner."Before the race, on March 2 2004, the Jockey Club, the sport's ruling body, had tipped off officials at Lingfield that a large amount of money had been placed on the horse to lose.At a stewards' inquiry after the race Mr Fallon explained that he had given the horse "a breather" and was afraid Ballinger Ridge would become "legless" if he kept up the pace.The Jockey Club later found that Fallon had made an error of judgment in the race. Mr Caplan said racing officials were not aware of the full picture at the time.Miles Rodgers, a professional gambler alleged to have been the organiser of the race-fixing conspiracy, had placed £74,000 on Ballinger Ridge to lose, the court heard.Mr Caplan claimed another jockey, Fergal Lynch, acted as an intermediary between Mr Rodgers and Mr Fallon.On the day of the race, he said, Mr Rodgers phoned Mr Lynch nine times.Mr Lynch sent a text message to Mr Fallon about two hours before the race. It was then the Jockey Club called in police and an undercover investigation was started in May 2004, leading to arrests that September.Mr Fallon, Mr Rodgers and four others deny conspiring to make 27 horses lose, defrauding the online betting exchange Betfair and other punters between December 2002 and September 2004. Mr Rodgers also denies concealing the proceeds of crime. The case continues.