Thousands of schoolchildren in cities across Britain are to be given anti-gun lessons and be taught about the problems of gang culture as the Government struggles to contain the spiralling problem of armed crime among the young.As Home Secretary David Blunkett admitted that people were becoming more scared of crime, Government officials revealed that the lessons will be introduced as part of the attempted crackdown on gun culture which saw the death of two teenage girls in a shoot-out in Birmingham on New Year's day. Last week the Home Office released figures revealing that gun crime had increased by 35 per cent between 2001 and 2002. Officials from the Department for Education and Skills (DfES) are to put together a series of lessons which will become part of the citizenship courses which are now a compulsory part of the national curriculum. They will also make up part of all pupils' personal, social and health education which already encompasses issues such as sex education and drugs advice. Alex Sevier, an official from the DfES, was invited to the Home Office gun summit on Friday. He said that more needed to be done in schools to help children understand about the dangers of getting sucked in by the 'gun and gang' culture which often has a glamorous image. Former gang members will be invited into schools and police will also discuss the problems they face trying to enforce the law. 'I don't think this is something you would need if you live in the middle of Norfolk,' said one Home Office source. 'But clearly we have to go beyond simple enforcement and try and get to the roots of what is going on in city areas. 'We don't want to talk down to young people but allow them to talk to their own peer group, people who know all about the gang culture and have come out of the other side.' Yesterday, Blunkett admitted that a series of statistics over the last week showing increases in crime had left the public more worried. 'I understand perfectly well why if you survey people at the end of 10 days after a terrible shooting in Birmingham and tremendous daily coverage on gun crime, people display their concern and their worry. I would,' he said in an interview with Radio 4's Today programme. 'If I didn't have the actual facts, I would believe crime had risen over the last five years. If I didn't have the British Crime Survey, which actually tested independently people's views, I would believe what I had read in the newspapers.'On Thursday, two newspapers said there would be devastating new figures in which every single area of crime would have risen. Iain Duncan Smith [the Conservative leader] repeated it yesterday. 'It is grossly untrue. It is a lie, a simple lie.' Blunkett said that while robberies involving firearms had increased, the overall rate of robberies had fallen by 10 per cent. Action was now being taken to tackle the availability of guns, particularly replicas which were easily converted into dangerous weapons. Blunkett backed Lord Woolf's call for more use of community sentences for first-time burglars, but criticised his presentation of the issue. 'I don't blame the Lord Chief Justice, because he is not a politician, but when you communicate it is very important that people understand the signal, the message,' said the Home Secretary in what was seen as a coded attack on Derry Irvine, the Lord Chancellor, who said that first time offenders should not face prison. The Home Office has also given its backing to a pioneering anti-gun campaign fronted by black celebrities due to start in London schools this summer, which will now spread to city schools nationwide. It could also use reformed young gun criminals, and their victims, to warn pupils off gangster lifestyles. 'We need this to be owned by the local community, and that can be achieved by an anti-gun campaign that would really have an impact, using our rap artists and our sports stars to intervene in schools and say this is not a life you should be associated with,' said Lee Jasper, the London Mayor's adviser on race relations, who attended the summit. 'We are now getting Government backing for that and it will be done nationwide.'