The new "dangerous persons order" announced today by the home secretary, Charles Clarke, is no doubt meant to rekindle public confidence in the way serious offenders are monitored in the community, particularly by the probation service.The move is a response to the recent spate of high profile murder cases that began spectacularly last December with the conviction of 25-year-old career criminal Damien Hanson, who received a 36-year minimum prison term for the killing of wealthy financier John Monckton - and has yet to end.Ex-prisoner Hanson and his accomplice Elliot White - who was out on bail for other offences - were both under probation supervision when they carried out their attack on the Monckton family home.Other cases also committed when the perpetrators were under probation supervision, including the murders of Mary Anne Leneghan, teacher Robert Symons and more recently Naomi Bryant, has placed unprecedented pressure on the authorities to act.Presumably the Home Office hopes that by adding more restrictive conditions to the release of prisoners deemed to present a "high risk of harm", it will be easier to control their movements. Curfews, exclusion zones and regular reporting to the police and probation are among the stipulations to be attached to the new orders.Any breach of the conditions is likely to result in an immediate return to prison, possibly for up to an additional five years. Whatever the conditions under which someone subject to one of the new orders face, if they are to be any more effective than current practice they will need to contain more innovative elements than the merely restrictive.Hanson and White already had various levels of restriction attached to their probation/parole licences including in the case of Hanson, who was classed as high risk, an exclusion order. But the failure in the Hanson and White case lay not in the inadequacy of the conditions or restrictions, but in the failure of the probation supervisors to do their job properly.In his report following the outcry over the case, the chief inspector of probation said that in the case of White officers had "failed repeatedly to enforce conditions specific to him". The same "collective failure" occurred in the handling of Hanson, including the "extraordinary" situation, according to the inspector, where Hanson had to report to a probation office "sited in an area he was excluded from".The inspector made no mention of the failings cited in his report as being systemic, but explicitly made the point that they were down to people error. Four probation officers involved in the supervision of the two men were suspended. The inspector concluded his report with a number of recommendations, the first of which, the most emphatic, was that probation staff "do the job properly".Let's be honest here, unless that happens all the restrictions and conditions in the world are not going to make a halfpenny's worth of difference. Which makes me wonder if the home secretary's new order is little more than a kneejerk appeasement-of-the-media exercise. If so, we are in seriously dangerous territory.A friend of mine, currently on life licence and under probation supervision, told me recently that he was talking to a couple of people on probation in the waiting room of his local probation office. One was excluded from the town they were in during daylight hours, yet had to report to his probation officer during office hours, which meant he had to break one condition of his licence in order to fulfil another.The other man had a home curfew from 5.30pm yet was expected to attend an offending behaviour course in the evening after work, again breaking one term of his order to fulfil another. Clearly somebody is not coordinating orders there. "It's like they are trying to make everybody believe that they are doing something," said my friend, "but they're not tying everything together properly."Worrying too is the fact that the Home Office intends to reinstate interviews of parole applicants by the Parole Board. On the face of it this sounds like a good idea - common sense even - yet in reality what more is there to gain?All information on a parole applicant will be available to the Parole Board in report from. Report writers in prison, from the wing officer to the prison psychologist, will have documented as much as they know about a prisoner before his case for parole is considered. What more can the Parole Board find out during an hour-long interview? Apart from discovering physical attributes like shifty eyes or dirty fingernails, nothing of consequence, I'd wager.Which makes this exercise too, however well-intentioned, sound to me suspiciously like a piece of PR. I admit, I don't know the solution. One thing I do know however is that unless reforms are thought out carefully over a long period of reflection they become just another bureaucratic burden to the practitioners.And all the time the people at the centre, the perpetrators, become less trusting of their "enforcers" and more detached from society, and hence potentially more dangerous. Nobody knows what's in a person's heart and mind. Nobody can predict the future. The best we can do is to be honest, and hope.· Erwin James, the Guardian's prisons columnist, writes monthly for SocietyGuardian.co.uk