A district judge today blocked an attempt to launch a private prosecution against the entertainer Michael Barrymore following the death of a butcher found in a swimming pool at the star's home nearly five years ago. A lawyer representing the family of the dead man, Stuart Lubbock, 31, of Harlow, Essex, had tried to prosecute Mr Barrymore for drug offences and assault. But a district judge at Southend magistrates court blocked the action, ruling that there was insufficient evidence. The decision was announced by the Lubbock family's lawyer, Tony Bennett, following a private hearing."The application was refused for a number of reasons," Mr Bennett said. "Basically, the judge felt that there was insufficient evidence. I felt that we had grounds to launch a private prosecution but the judge took a different view. "I'm not sure what other legal avenues are open now unless some of the people that were in Mr Barrymore's house the night Mr Lubbock died come forward and give evidence about what went on. Then the case could be reopened."Mr Lubbock's father, Terry, said after the hearing that he was disappointed but "we will still carry on". "The next thing is to get Michael Barrymore to say how the injuries Stuart suffered occurred."Mr Lubbock was found dead at Mr Barrymore's home in Roydon, near Harlow, in March 2001. Mr Bennett said the Lubbock family had served an application alleging six offences, four related to the misuse of drugs, one alleging drunk and disorderly behaviour, and one alleging assault on Stuart Lubbock. Following the judge's decision, Mr Barrymore said he would "very much welcome" working alongside the Lubbock family to uncover the truth."Mr Bennett's motivation to seek the truth as to how Stuart Lubbock received the injuries to his body is absolutely right. I remain totally committed, as I always have, to continue pursuing the truth about Stuart Lubbock's death on that tragic evening," he said in a statement."Allegations about drugs on that night are a complete irrelevance as to how Stuart Lubbock suffered those injuries. The court held that Mr Bennett's misguided application today to prosecute me for drugs offences was an abuse of process. It was not in the public interest and the evidence which he relied upon today was either inadequate or not lawfully obtained."Police launched a lengthy investigation following Mr Lubbock's death, but Mr Barrymore was never prosecuted and an open verdict was recorded at an inquest in September 2002.A spokeswoman for Essex police said today: "The case has never been closed. It remains open. We are in regular contact with the Lubbock family and if we receive any new information or evidence, we would pursue that. "Michael Barrymore was cautioned for drugs offences following our investigation."