One Friday night, in August 2007, 47-year-old Garry Newlove came out of his house, in Warrington, to remonstrate with youths, after one of his daughters had told him a neighbour's garden was being vandalised. He was attacked and, two days later, died from a head injury. The killing attracted vast media coverage; it emerged the youths had been drinking heavily and Newlove's death was seen as evidence of what David Cameron, then leader of the Conservative party in opposition, described as "broken Britain". Five local teenagers were charged with the murder of the father of three, and stood trial three months later. Three of them – Adam Swellings, Stephen Sorton and Jordan Cunliffe – were found guilty of murder.Two other youths were cleared. Swellings was ordered to serve a minimum of 17 years, Sorton 15 years, while Cunliffe, 15 at the time of the killing, was given a 12-year sentence.Following the killing and the trial, Newlove's widow, Helen, began to campaign against the antisocial behaviour and drinking culture she blamed for her husband's death. She set up a charity, Newlove Warrington, aimed at making the Cheshire town a safer and better place by improving facilities for children, through education and life skills. Earlier this year, she launched the National Licensed Trade Association, with the target of introducing a responsible drinking culture in the UK. As a result of her work with Newlove Warrington, she last year won the Cheshire Woman of the Year award for her "outstanding personal courage and contribution to her community".Her campaigning brought her to the attention of politicians, including Cameron, who met her on a visit to the north-west in the run-up to the election. In May, it was announced that the 48-year-old was to be given a peerage, and in June she took her seat in the Lords as Baroness Newlove of Warrington. Last Wednesday, she stood alongside Theresa May when the home secretary announced that asbos would be replaced by "simpler sanctions, easier to obtain and enforce"."Asbos haven't worked because they became a medal of honour for the people they are meant to deter, the ferals on the street," the home secretary said in an interview with ITN.Three years since her husband was killed, Newlove's rage against the three convicted youths is unrelenting. Newlove, who supports capital punishment – she told reporters in 2008 that the UK should have the death penalty – believes the trio convicted of killing her husband should never be released from prison.Less than a 10-minute walk from the Newloves' house, another woman is engaged in a crusade, also sparked by the death of Garry Newlove. Janet is the mother of Jordan Cunliffe, now serving his time in a young offender institution.Since his arrest, Cunliffe has maintained his innocence, saying that although present, he did not participate in the attack on Newlove. Despite submitting evidence that new witnesses had come forward – and a claim that the trial judge had misdirected the jury – last week Cunliffe was denied the right to appeal against his conviction. His defence at the trial centred on whether Cunliffe could have seen and thereby been able to encourage the crime. For years, he has suffered from acute keratoconus, an eye condition. A medical report produced at the trial stated: "He is eligible to be registered as a blind person and is unable to perform any tasks for which vision is necessary." The report was accepted by the prosecution and read to the jury.At the time of the killing, Janet Cunliffe was living in Wigan with her partner and two sons, but has now returned to her Warrington home, saying she and her family have "nothing to hide". She says she has no doubt her son is innocent of the crime that shocked a nation. Although she concedes that Cunliffe was no angel – he had a caution for shoplifting – she cannot associate him with the thug-laden headlines the case created.Swellings, Sorton and Cunliffe were tried under a 300-year-old law the police have successfully re-employed in the last decade to fight gang violence. The principle of this "joint enterprise" or "common purpose" doctrine is that when two or more people assault or murder, even those who do not physically participate or strike the fatal blow but lend encouragement to the crime are as guilty as the main perpetrator and will receive similar punishment. It is deemed sufficient enough for another party to realise that the primary perpetrator might kill with intent or intend to cause grievous bodily harm.Although press reports of the killing of Garry Newlove described the gang as "kicking him like a football", at the trial the jury heard he had died from a single blow and there were no other significant injuries to his body. There seems little dispute, from the evidence, that the fatal blow, or kick, had been landed by Sorton.Cunliffe admitted being at the crime scene, but claimed he had been lagging behind the main group of teenagers, apparently around 15-strong. His mother says her son had travelled from Wigan to Warrington that day to go fishing and meet with friends. He missed the last train home and got permission from her to stay at the Warrington home the family still retained.A significant issue at trial was the prosecution's claim that a similar confrontation – though unreported at the time – had taken place between the youths and another Warrington man a week before Newlove's death. It was alleged that Cunliffe was involved in that fracas and the allegation allowed the prosecution to claim that Cunliffe knew his friends were capable of violence – which fits the common purpose criteria.Cunliffe said he was not in Warrington on the day of the earlier attack, a claim backed up by his mother and another witness. Since the trial, two further witnesses have emerged to say Cunliffe was in Wigan, not Warrington, on that day. Cunliffe's lawyers sought leave to appeal against his conviction but, last week, three judges decided the grounds were not sufficient to challenge the conviction.His case raises further questions about the application of the common purpose law. Lord Phillips, former lord chief justice, is on record describing it as "unfair", and last year a BBC Panorama investigation questioned the safety of Cunliffe's conviction on the basis of the law.Next month, Janet Cunliffe will launch a campaign, Common Purpose, aimed at fighting for those wrongly convicted by the misuse of the law. Writer Jimmy McGovern has agreed to be the campaign's patron.Although bound together by tragic circumstances, it is unlikely that Helen Newlove and Janet Cunliffe will ever find common ground. Newlove describes Jordan Cunliffe as a murderer. "Would you stand there watching somebody else kicking and punching? Would you actually think that was right to watch even if you didn't do the act? They were all as guilty as the person doing the act," she said.Janet Cunliffe says "watching" somebody else kicking and punching is exactly what her son could not have done because of his eye condition. She says the fight to prove her son's innocence will continue.Voices in the wake of lossSome of those bereaved by violent, unlawful deaths take up the cudgel against those responsible for their loss. In 2000, Sara Payne's eight-year-old daughter, Sarah, was murdered by a known paedophile, Roy Whiting. Payne has led a successful campaign to persuade the government to allow controlled access to the sex offenders register.A different perspective is offered by Ann Whelan, whose son Michael Hickey was convicted of the murder of 13-year-old Carl Bridgewater, in 1978. Hickey, 16 at the time, and three other men were sentenced to life for the shooting. Whelan fought for 19 years to have her son's conviction overturned. Hickey and two other men (another died in prison) were released by the court of appeal in 1997.