Today 21 judges at the European court of human rights in Strasbourg will deliver a judgment which could open the way for the Moors murderer Myra Hindley to win her freedom. Lawyers believe there is a strong chance that the grand chamber of the European court will overturn an earlier Strasbourg ruling and strip the home secretary of his right to decide when murderers are set free.Judges, too, are predicting a win for Dennis Stafford, who accuses the UK government of unlawfully detaining him for the final 15 months of his prison term, until he was finally released in December 1998 after serving sentences for murder and forgery. Lord Justice Simon Brown, a senior appeal court judge, said in a recent judgment: "I shall be surprised if the present regime for implementing mandatory life sentences survives the European court of human rights' re-examination of the issue in Stafford." The issue is this: who should decide how long a prisoner serves - a politician or a judge? The European convention on human rights lays down that everyone is entitled to a fair hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal , that no one can be deprived of liberty except in accordance with a procedure prescribed by law, and that anyone deprived of liberty by detention has the right to have the lawfulness of that detention decided speedily by a court. For murderers, the mandatory sentence is life imprisonment, though few will actually end their days in jail. According to the seriousness of the crime, the trial judge recommends a "tariff" - the minimum term the prisoner must serve to fulfil the purposes of punishment and deterrence - before the parole board can consider his case for release. The lord chief justice adds his recommendation, but the final tariff is set by the home sec retary, who may decide that it should be longer than the judges suggest. The average murderer gets a tariff of 12 years. When the tariff expires, release depends on whether the prisoner is still considered a risk to the public. The parole board makes a recommendation, but the home secretary has the final say. Mandatory lifers are released on licence and may be called back to prison at any time and made to serve a further term if they commit a crime or otherwise breach the conditions of their licence. Stafford, now 68, and his friend Michael Luvaglio were jailed for life in 1967 for the Newcastle clubland killing that inspired a book and the film Get Carter, starring Michael Caine. Luvaglio's solicitor, Sir David Napley, went to his grave convinced that the conviction was a gross miscarriage of justice. In his memoirs he picked large holes in the prosecution's case and highlighted errors by the judges in the three subsequent appeals, all unsuccessful. In 1979 Stafford was released on licence and moved to South Africa, where he became a successful businessman. But the move was a breach of his life licence, which meant that he could be recalled to prison at any time. He was arrested in 1989 while visiting Britain on a forged passport. He was sent back to prison and released again on licence in 1991, but in 1994 he was convicted of conspiracy to forge passports and travellers' cheques and went back to jail. Two years later the parole board assessed his risk of committing further serious offences as very low, and urged his immediate release on licence. Michael Howard, then home secretary, decided that there was a risk that he might commit serious non-violent offences and that he should be transferred to an open prison and have his case reviewed again after two years. This meant that he could not be released for another three years. Until then, it had always been assumed that in order to justify extending a murderer's time in custody, there had to be a risk that he would commit serious crimes of violence. Stafford took his case to the high court, which ruled that the risk had to be to life and limb. Jack Straw, by now home secretary, appealed, and the appeal court ruled that the minister's discretion was wide enough to detain mandatory lifers past the expiry of their tariff for fear that they might commit serious offences, even though they posed no physical danger. But at the judges' urging, Straw reviewed the case again. He cut Stafford's review period from two years to six months, and released him in December 1998. Meanwhile, Stafford lodged an application in Strasbourg, claiming that the UK government breached his right to liberty in forcing him to serve the last 15 months. If he wins today, his lawyers, Edward Fitzgerald QC and Tim Owen QC - who also act for Hindley - say it will open the way for her and any other prisoner whose tariff has been increased by the home secretary to ask a judge to fix a new one. They say in a joint opinion: "If Dennis Stafford's application is successful, this will have major implications for all mandatory lifers. It is difficult, if not impossible, to see how the continuing involvement of the home secretary in fixing tariffs and deciding on the release of such prisoners could be maintained." Over the past decade, the powers of the home secretary to determine prisoners' release dates have been gradually whittled away in Strasbourg. Following a case in 1991, the government was forced to bring in legislation allowing release dates for discretionary lifers - those sentenced to life for lesser crimes than murder - to be decided not by the home secretary but by a parole board panel, headed by a judge. Then in 1996 the Strasbourg court ruled that the same right had to be extended to young killers sentenced to detention at her majesty's pleasure - the juvenile equivalent of a life sentence. In 1999 Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, the schoolboy murderers of two-year-old James Bulger, won yet another ruling from Strasbourg that in future a judge, not the home secretary, should fix the tariff. That decision paved the way for the pair - who had a 15-year tariff fixed by the former home secretary, Michael Howard, after the trial judge recommended eight and the lord chief justice 10 - to have their tariff slashed by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, and be released little more than eight years after their conviction. In reality, said Strasbourg, the period served by the prisoner is the sentence, and therefore that term must be decided by a judge. But in the Wynne case in 1994, the European court held that murder was a uniquely serious crime and that adults serving mandatory life for murder were in a unique position. They were released on licence but remained subject to recall for the rest of their lives. So the sentence really was life and not the term they served. For mandatory lifers, therefore, the home secretary retained the power to fix the tariff - which may be much longer than the term recommended by the judge who presided over the trial, or by the lord chief justice. Once the tariff expires, the question becomes: is the prisoner a danger to the public? If not, the parole board should recommend his release. But for mandatory lifers, the home secretary can still overrule the parole board and keep the prisoner in jail. Of 3,000 mandatory lifers, 22 have been told that their tariff is "whole life". They have been condemned, by the home secretary's fiat, to die in prison. They include some of the country's most notorious murderers: Hindley and Ian Brady, Rosemary West, Dennis Nielsen. Since the Wynne case in 1994, Britain's highest court, the house of lords, has held that tariff-fixing is a sentencing exercise. In the case of mandatory lifers, the real sentencing power lies not with the judge who pronounces the life sentence, but with the home secretary. And Strasbourg case law holds that sentencing is a job for judges, not politicians. Yet the Wynne case has remained the stumbling block in recent unsuccessful challenges in the British courts to the home secretary's powers. That obstacle could be removed today. Why should judges, not politicians, take the decision? Judges cannot lose their jobs for unpopular decisions; they are less prone to be swayed by the baying of the crowd. Michael Howard set the 15-year tariff for Thompson and Venables after receiving thousands of coupons from Sun readers demanding a whole-life tariff. Yes, they committed a horrible crime. But the starting point from which judges go up or down, according to aggravating or mitigating factors, is 14 years for murder. Only 10 years old when they killed James Bulger, they had barely reached the age of criminal responsibility and should have been given a much shorter tariff. Myra Hindley was Ian Brady's accomplice in the brutal, sadistic murders of five children, though the killings were carried out by Brady. In 1985, 20 years after she was convicted, Lord Lane, then lord chief justice, recommended a 25-year tariff for her. She has now served 37 years in prison, although five years ago the parole board assessed her as low risk and recommended that she be moved to an open prison.In the public imagination, Hindley and Brady hold unique places in the pantheon of evil. It would be a brave home secretary who dared to release her. But the choice may not be his for much longer.