The evening that John Darwin walked into a London police station feigning amnesia, the extraordinary story of a man coming back from the dead quickly spread around the world. But to a handful of detectives, the news did not come as a complete surprise. For some months they had been looking into the missing persons case, believing certain things were amiss.For a start, Anne Darwin, who portrayed herself as a broken-hearted housewife, appeared to be gallivanting around the world – taking foreign holidays, planning to sell the family home in Hartlepool to move to Panama, transferring large sums of money abroad and whispering into her phone at work.Police had been on the verge of launching an overseas investigation when John Darwin came back from the dead. Detective constable Gary Dolan, from Cleveland police's economic crime unit, said: "About four months before John Darwin came back, I was asked by a detective inspector in Hartlepool, who had been reviewing the case, to try and make some financial inquiries because they had some information that Mr Darwin may not be dead. "My inquiries led me to believe that he did still exist. We had a meeting just before John Darwin turned up and decided we would do some inquiries overseas and try to establish whether Mr Darwin was alive."While it has been suggested that John Darwin made the final decision to return to the UK because he was desperately missing his two sons, Mark and Anthony, information which emerged following the verdict today showed a far more selfish motivation.According to reports, the true reason John Darwin decided to return was because planned changes to visa regulations were going to prevent him living in Panama. Sky News reported today that an email from John Darwin to Anne dated May 31, 2007, discussed the visa issue.He reportedly researched requirements for an ''investor's'' visa and found out that he would need a $200,000 term deposit account in Panama. This also meant both of their identities would need to be verified by police in Britain.The couple hatched a plan for him to return to the UK and convince police he had lost his memory.Detective inspector Andy Greenwood, who led the investigation, said when police started looking into the case he initially thought the sons must have known about their parents' plan. "But the more we investigated it, the more we realised they did not know, they had gone through a particularly horrendous sequence of events. For her to say 'I had to go along with it because John told me', I just don't know how any mother could do that. She was out and out despicable and I don't have the time of day for her." Greenwood said Anne Darwin had been a compulsive liar throughout the inquiry, and said that her desperate defence was the last throw of the dice. "The sensible option would have been to put her hands up to the offences committed and not put her sons through the turmoil of giving evidence. She put a lot of people through a lot of heartache and a lot of expense as well."Greenwood said that although he had suspicions that John Darwin was alive, he had no idea where he was. "It was a big surprise that John Darwin came back. It is likely we would never have traced him.'' Speaking outside court following the verdict today, he added: "I don't think we have really got to the bottom of everything here today"I'm sure there will be more stories that come to light but she has clearly been brought to task for the offences she committed."