After 69 days of public hearings, the Stephen Lawrence inquiry finally came to an end yesterday.The quasi-legal investigation stemmed from the fumbled police investigation of the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence - which saw five presumed killers walk free from court.The inquiry chairman, former High Court judge Sir William Macpherson, is expected to produce a report which will call for the most radical shake-up in the policing of racial crime since Lord Scarman's investigation into the race riots of 1981.Sir William ended his marathon exercise in Birmingham, where the Chief Constable of the West Midlands, Edward Crew, admitted that the present disciplinary system, requiring a criminal standard of proof, allowed racist police officers to remain in the service.This frank admission of failure was not often found in the inquiry. Stephen Lawrence's parents, Neville and Doreen, were incensed by Sir Paul Condon, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, who refused to admit his force was "institutionally racist".From the St Paul's district of Bristol - scene of the first race riot of the early 1980s - came a categorical denial of any racist behaviour on the street. Campaigners in Southall, west London, accused police of using conflicts between ethnic minorities as an excuse for failing to investigate racially-motivated attacks.Sir William's report is due to be published in February and, for the first time, a senior judge is likely to come to the clearest conclusion yet that racism is institutionalised in Britain's police forces.Since the inquiry began in March, Sir William and his three advisers have publicly grappled with a definition for institutional racism. "Ask any 12 people and you get 12 different answers," he said. One possible form of words - hinted at by his adviser, Bishop John Sentamu - will describe it as "a collective failure of an organisation to treat a person according to their needs".Scarman's report will, in effect, be turned on his head. He wrote after the Brixton riots of the early 1980s of the "ill-considered, immature and racially prejudiced actions of some officers in their dealings on the streets with young black people". He asserted that such behaviour was not common in lower ranks and non-existent higher up. Behind that so-called "bad apple" theory, police have sought refuge since.The signs are that the final report of the Lawrence inquiry may shatter perceptions of race in Britain, and identify policies and practices that discriminate against ethnic minorities.However, the central message will be that the Met failed the Lawrence family catastrophically, and that police forces need to have strategies addressing the huge gulf between themselves and young black youths. Stephen was stabbed to death on a south London street in 1993 by five white racist teenagers who have never been convicted.That the subsequent investigation was botched is now accepted. The Met have made race crime a priority and set up a Racial and Violent Crime Task Force under John Grieve, a deputy assistant commissioner.The new mood has also seen the death by burning of black musician Michael Menson, and the drowning of Ricky Reel, belatedly investigated as racist murders.None of this can relieve the pain of Stephen's parents. "There is a burning inside that I have been robbed and I have not got the justice I deserve," said Mr Lawrence yesterday. "A lot of good has come out of it but we have to make sure this doesn't happen again. We have just touched the tip of the iceberg as far as I can see, and we may need other inquiries to look into the cases of other families.