During the last four-and-a-half weeks, jury members at an inquest in Chester-le-Street, Co Durham, have glimpsed a part of Britain that must have seemed as foreign to them as Iraq; and they have seen scenes of degradation that must have shocked them as much as the infamous images from Abu Ghraib or Camp Breadbasket.The jury's task was to decide why Paul Day, a 31-year-old prisoner nearing the end of his sentence in a British jail, chose to end his life. Its verdict - that he was driven to kill himself because prison staff did nothing to stop other prisoners abusing him - is much more than a decision on a death in custody; it is an indictment of our whole prison system.Paul was a registered police informer, serving eight years for robbery. His family say that he wanted to stop informing, because he had come to believe that some of those that he had helped to convict were innocent. After Paul made that decision, evidence suggests that the police and the Prison Service withdrew the protection he had previously enjoyed. The Prison Service denies this, but the governor at Wandsworth prison admitted that he had told Paul he was being sent to Frankland, a maximum-security prison in Durham, because it had a "grasses' wing" where he would be safe. No such wing exists, however, and Day was targeted as a grass within 20 minutes of setting foot in the jail, with both prisoners and staff shouting abuse and urging him to kill himself. Despite being "on protection" and a self-harm watch, this vulnerable prisoner was placed in a segregation unit. Such units used to be known as punishment blocks, and those who investigate abuse in jails agree that they remain the places where most mistreatment occurs. Here, Paul suffered constant verbal abuse from inmates. Prison officers did nothing - indeed, some joined in. Eventually Day joined a dirty protest in the unit - said by the coroner to have been the biggest such protest in the penal system outside Northern Ireland. An inmate told the inquest that, like all prisoners on the protest, Day was given contaminated food. And so the jury was taken behind closed doors, to a place where men daub their bodies and cells with their own excrement for weeks on end. The stench of faeces and urine permeates every corner of the segregation unit. The jury must have wondered what drives men to choose to eat, drink and sleep in such an environment. They would have done well to listen to the words of a spokesman for the Prisoners' Advice Service (PAS): "Dirty protests are not entered into lightly - they are undertaken by men in desperate circumstances, who feel there is little else they can do to protect themselves." Or, as the former prisoner Jimmy Boyle put it: "The screws liked the taste of my blood, they did not like the taste of my shit." The purpose of a segregation unit is to hold those who have offended against prison discipline. But all manner of prisoners end up there: those who have self-harmed and are seen as a control problem, rather than desperate souls in need of help; those, like Paul Day, deemed in need of protection; the mentally ill; and, of course, those who do rail against the system. Most self-inflicted deaths in maximum-security jails occur in segregation units. They are places that teem with torment. The inquest heard prisoner after prisoner testify to the appalling conditions and daily abuse in the unit - no surprise to the PAS, which has received complaints of serious abuse from segregation units in almost every maximum-security prison in the country. Prisoners in Long Lartin, Full Sutton and Whitemoor jails have been driven to dirty protests in the past few years. The news that such protests are a regular feature of life in the "blocks" should have driven the Prison Service to investigate what is going on in them. However, the Home Office says that it does not collate dirty-protest figures on a national basis - an admission that alone should be a matter of national disgrace. As in Abu Ghraib and Camp Breadbasket, this issue goes far beyond a "few bad apples". When prison officers mistreat prisoners, then governors and civil servants must be, at best, turning a blind eye; at worst, they must approve of what is going on. Every prison has an independent monitoring board (formerly known as the board of visitors). But the boards are not seen as independent, and they do little monitoring. A new body must be put in place that does not owe allegiance to the Prison Service that it is supposed to monitor. As a society, we cannot tolerate this hidden abuse of power, taking place in our name, and in our midst. · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent e.allison@theguardian.com