It is perhaps the most uncomfortable of ironies, but the Moors murderer Ian Brady will be deeply envious this morning that his partner in crime Myra Hindley has had her dreams of freedom snatched away by death.The child killer, who was force fed after going on a hunger strike at the end of 1999, has not made any secret of the fact he does not want to be paroled and would rather die than "rot slowly" in prison. Brady, 61, who was jailed in 1966 for the murders of three children, started refusing food and water in protest at being moved from the ward he had occupied in Ashworth special hospital since 1985. In a letter sent to the BBC in December 1999 he wrote: "I prefer to die healthy rather than rot slowly for their vested interests and expediency." He said he had spent 35 years in captivity and was destined to die in "some garbage can", but the hospital authorities "in their expedient blindness" could not accept that he was not "even remotely interested in living another 20 or 30 years merely to provide employment for an overmanned army of penal bureaucrats and prison warders". During his failed bid for the right to die, Brady revealed to the world the reasons behind his legal battle and his secret jealousy of Hindley "I envy Hindley. Myra gets the potentially fatal brain condition, whilst I have to fight simply to die. I have had enough. I want nothing, my objective is to die and release myself from this once and for all... I'm eager to leave this cesspit in a coffin." Brady's conviction was a grim fulfilment of the nickname given to him by locals who watched him slouch around wearing a long trenchcoat on the Hattersley estate in Greater Manchester where he grew up: the Undertaker. Brady going on hunger strike at the same time Hindley was suffering from a cerebral aneurysm prompted some to speculate they were bound by a suicide pact. But in reality, relations between the pair soured years ago. They had never met since their trial in May 1966. He wrote: "I look forward to death alone."