The police watchdog is to investigate whether Northumbria police missed an opportunity to stop the alleged gunman Raoul Moat after it emerged the force received a warning that he had threatened to harm his former partner the day before she was shot and seriously injured.Sue Sim, Northumbria's temporary chief constable, said the force was told on Friday by Durham prison – which had released Moat the previous day after a short jail term for assault – that he had talked about harming Samantha Stobbart.Sim has voluntarily referred the matter for investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). She said the force was not warned specifically that Moat planned to shoot Stobbart but that he intended to cause serious harm to his partner."We acknowledge it is important that these matters are investigated thoroughly and I have voluntarily referred this aspect to the IPCC," said Sims. "We will, of course, fully co-operate with the IPCC."Police are searching for Moat after Stobbart was seriously hurt when shots were fired through a living room window in Birtley, Gateshead in the early hours of Saturday. Moments later her boyfriend, Chris Brown, was shot dead outside the house. Just after midnight on Sunday, a Northumbria policeman was shot in an attack also linked to Moat.The prison's decision to warn police was highly unusual. Moat had been serving an 18-week sentence for a "low-level" assault on a family member and was released at the half-way point of two months and two days. As a short sentence prisoner, he was not required to be supervised by the probation service once he had walked out.Police sources suggested earlier that Moat had told other inmates he was going to kill when he got out but did not say who was his intended target: "He was a man hell bent on revenge. He was full of rage," the sources were quoted as saying.Prison authorities were believed to be acting on this intelligence when they warned police. However, if they had felt the intelligence was strong enough to warrant immediate action, they could have warned the police earlier to enable them to carry out a "gate arrest" as he stepped out of prison.It will now be up to the IPCC to decide whether more action could have been taken after the warnings.In response to the situation, Northumbria police , one of the larger forces in England and Wales, with just over 4,000 officers, has deployed its own armed response teams as well as specialist search units, dog handlers and a helicopter.In addition, police from five neighbouring areas – Cleveland, Humberside, West Yorkshire, South Yorkshire and Cumbria – have despatched armed officers of their own to assist with the search. Neither Northumbria or any of the other forces involved will discuss the number of police taking part in the operation.Sim said: "All available officers, including a number from other forces, have been actively involved in the sustained search for Moat. We are determined to find this man to draw an end to these violent events."