A wife who poisoned her husband three times by slipping a tranquilliser into two Chinese takeaways and a curry was yesterday spared jail by a judge who described the crimes as "like something from a very bad detective novel". Linda Lees appeared for sentence at Truro crown court after pleading guilty at an earlier hearing to three charges of administering to her husband, Paul, a poisonous, obnoxious or destructive substance. Lees, from Helston, Cornwall, was given a 49-week prison sentence, suspended for 18 months, and ordered to pay £300 costs. Judge Christopher Elwen ordered her not to visit her husband's home in Southsea, or his place of work, and not to contact him except through her solicitor. The relationship between Lees, a businesswoman, and her husband, a civilian trainer for the Royal Navy, was plunged into crisis after he began a relationship with another woman. Lees, 45, first poisoned her 43-year-old husband when he went to the family home in Helston, Cornwall, in March to tell her the marriage was over. They had a Chinese takeaway but he woke naked to find her slapping him around the face with hands sheathed in surgical gloves. He felt groggy and hid in the bathroom, but when he emerged she kicked him and pushed him down the stairs. Terry Eastwood, defending, said that Lees had given her husband temazepam to enable her to gain access to his mobile phone.The couple met again later that month in a curry house in Exeter. She intercepted a waiter and told him she wanted to carry her husband's meal to the table because she intended to hide their wedding ring in it as a romantic gesture. Instead, she slipped tranquilliser into the curry. The last attack happened in the summer after the couple had agreed to separate but decided to spend a last weekend together. She again poisoned his takeaway Chinese meal and he awoke in her car to find a hosepipe through the window. He escaped and called the police. She later claimed that she had not intended to kill him, but wanted to stupefy him and make sure he was asleep while she committed suicide.The judge told her: "The facts as they have unfolded before me are rather more like part of a very bad detective novel. "Your relationship has been fractured and fraught. The outcome on any of these three occasions could have been much, much more serious than it was." But the judge said he had took into account Mr Lees's victim impact statement, in which he asked for his wife not to be jailed for the sake of their daughter. Eastwood said Lees realised her husband was having an affair after visiting him in Portsmouth and seeing an intimate picture of him and another woman on the wall. He said: "It was not her intention to kill him and never has been. "The statement from him makes it clear he does not want his wife sent to prison because he does not think it would benefit himself or their daughter. He just wants her to receive help."