The home secretary has ruled out changing the law on self-defence against intruders because householders already have enough rights, he announced yesterday.But Charles Clarke said he would launch a campaign to clear up confusion about how far members of the public can go in protecting themselves, their families and their property. "I have concluded that the current law is sound, but needs to be better explained to all concerned, especially for householders," he said in a written statement. "Guidance and clarification will ensure that the current law is properly understood and implemented." Tony Blair and David Blunkett, the former home secretary, had indicated that they would consider amending legislation if consultations suggested it was necessary. But the prime minister's spokesman said that discussion with those "at the sharp end of enforcing the law" - the police and Ken McDonald, the director of public prosecutions (DPP) - had shown that it needed to be explained, not changed.In another indication that the government may be becoming more relaxed about fighting off Conservative attempts to depict them as weak on law and order, Mr Blair yesterday dismissed fears that 24-hour licensing would exacerbate the problems of binge drinking. Questioned by the Labour backbencher David Winnick, the prime minister said the law-abiding majority should not be inconvenienced by a tiny minority. The solution was to "come down hard" on those who did abuse alcohol and cause disturbances. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said he was disappointed by Mr Clarke's decision not to change the law on the use of force against burglars and urged the government to reconsider. Mr McDonald said the Crown Prosecution Service and the Association of Chief Police Officers (Acpo) would publish joint guidance "to help the public understand their rights so that any citizen who confronts a criminal in defence of their property, themselves or another, and who uses reasonable and proportionate force, does so in the knowledge that they will be fully supported by the criminal justice system". Chris Fox, president of Acpo, said it was important that everyone inside and outside the criminal justice system understood that anyone who used reasonable force would be supported by the system. The media-led campaign to win greater rights for householders against intruders has implied that the issue was whether householders should have the right to defend themselves. In fact, they already do. The real dispute centres over how that right is defined. Mr Clarke made his announcement on the day Patrick Mercer, the Tory homeland security spokesman, unveiled a private member's bill allowing people to use all but "grossly disproportionate force" against intruders. The present law allows the use of "reasonable" force. What is reasonable depends on the circumstances. The law recognises that the house holder is acting in the heat of the moment and allows considerable leeway. Campaigners complain that too many householders are subject to police investigation of their actions. But a police investigation is probably inevitable if a burglar sustains a serious injury. The DPP said yesterday that only 11 prosecutions have been brought in the past 15 years against occupants of domestic or commercial premises who tackled intruders. Homeowners have escaped prosecution in some cases even where burglars have been killed. Mr Mercer, MP for Newark, has said that under his proposed amendments the Norfolk farmer Tony Martin would still have been prosecuted and convicted for murdering a teenage burglar, Fred Barras, in 1999. Barras was shot in the back as he was leaving the property. Mr Martin's conviction initiated the tabloid calls for greater rights for householders. The issue was reignited last January when proposals to allow homeowners to use "any means" to defend their homes from intruders topped a poll by the BBC's Today programme which sought to find the most popular proposal for a new law. A handful of high-profile cases - including the fatal stabbings of financier John Monckton and teacher Robert Symons at their homes in London - fuelled concern and prompted the Sunday Telegraph to mount a campaign for legal reform. It was supported by the outgoing Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, and his successor, Sir Ian Blair.