They are as much of a draw to London's West End as the theatres, restaurants and historic pubs. Now Soho's 'clip joints', the illegal sex dens that lure men with the promise of 'adult entertainment' before extorting hundreds of pounds with the threat of violence, are set to be closed for good by a new police initiative.Existing police powers are to be combined with those of the fire brigade, council inspectors, immigration officers and an investigative unit of the Inland Revenue known as the Joint Shadow Economy Team to help close the clubs. Inspector Tim Ruprecht of the Soho sector team told The Observer: 'The plan is to frustrate their operations by finding every possible flaw in their business practices which allows us to shut them down. We will harass them at every stage so that they are forced to close down once and for all.' Earlier this month the Illusions clip joint in Great Windmill Street was closed after the fire brigade discovered it had no emergency exits. While this was seen as a success, at least six other clip joints continue to operate in Soho. Punters pay a fee of around £5 at the door in the expectation of seeing a striptease or meeting prostitutes. Once inside they find themselves in a small room furnished with a few tables and little else. A hostess appears, encourages the customer to buy her a drink and sits talking for a few minutes. Soon afterwards the customer is presented with a bill for several hundred pounds and threatened with violence if he does not pay. Staff are regularly arrested on suspicion of blackmail but victims rarely pursue the allegations, so the charges are dropped. 'There is a problem getting witnesses to come forward,' said a spokesman for Westminster Council. 'They are either returning abroad or do not want their family to know the type of place they have been visiting.' Earlier this month the Soho Cabaret, a clip joint next to Soho Parish School on Great Windmill Street, had its application for a public entertainment licence rejected. The venue wanted to stage shows featuring female dancers but objections were raised by the police, teachers from the school and trading standards officials. Officers from the Soho police team have recorded at least 20 incidents of alleged extortion and blackmail involving the club in the past two months. In one case, a victim was handed a bill of £625. Another was told he would be 'turned into hamburger' unless he paid £380. Speaking on condition of anonymity, the owner of one Soho clip joint offered an insight into the workings of the business: 'In the old days there would be hardcore films or some kind of sex show but because the council clamped down on that we had no choice but to go down the extortion route,' he said. 'These places started out as legitimate businesses and the average bill was £30. We were the first people to charge £100 and more because we knew we could get away with it. We have five hostesses, one waitress and one person on the door. Once men are inside all the hostess has to do is sit with him and make him think he's going to get sex. The hostesses earn 27 per cent of the man's bill. The waitress takes 13 per cent off each of the hostesses. 'Then the council insisted we put a price list on each table, so we did. It's printed in gothic script in red ink on red card. We keep the lights low so you can't actually read it. If the cops come we turn the lights up and there it is. 'The drinks have exotic names but none have alcohol in - we don't have a licence for that. When the bill arrives it includes the hostess fee, the waitress fee and a service charge. Depending on how much we reckon we can take the punter for, it goes from a few hundred to £600. 'The girls walk out with £300-400 for a shift, and the club can make two grand on a good day. When punters refuse to pay we threaten to call the police. Then the girls will start shouting at them, humiliating them and calling them every name under the sun. It almost never gets violent - that would bring too much trouble - we just intimidate people into paying up.' Years of operating on the fringes of legality mean the operators have learnt to use every trick to help them avoid prosecution. Customers who are taken to cashpoints are presented with receipts which state: 'Due to being unfamiliar with the Soho area I have requested that someone show me where I can obtain funds.' A Soho Cabaret menu shows the cheapest drink is the Blue Lagoon, price £95. The dearest is Le Cabaret Special which costs £225. There is a hostess fee of £95 and a service charge of 25 per cent.