The parents of the missing British three-year-old Madeleine McCann today vowed to "leave no stone unturned" in the search for their daughter.As the hunt for Madeleine - whose fourth birthday is tomorrow - was being wound down around Praia da Luz, the Algarve resort from which where she is thought to have been kidnapped eight days ago, David Beckham filmed an appeal for people in Spain to look out for her. The plea by the former England football captain, currently playing for Real Madrid, followed a similar video appeal by the Manchester United and Portugal star Cristiano Ronaldo earlier this week. In today's appeal, Beckham holds up a poster of Madeleine to the camera and says: "If you have seen this little girl, please go to your local authorities or the police with any genuine information. Please, please help us." This morning, Gerry McCann, standing alongside his wife, Kate, made a brief statement to reporters in Praia da Luz. "We have now seen at first hand how hard the police are working in the search for Madeleine and their strong desire to find her," he said. "We have also seen the resources being put into the investigation. "We are doing absolutely everything to assist the police with their investigations and we will leave no stone unturned in searching for our daughter, Madeleine." He said the couple were "very grateful" for support and help in finding their daughter, including a Scottish businessman's offer of a £1m reward to anyone who can provide information leading to her return. "We have been moved by the enormous willingness of people to do all they can to help find Madeleine," Mr McCann added. "As we have said before, we are positive and focused on the investigation."Police have interviewed a number of people, some Britons among them. The McCanns spent some hours with officers yesterday, although it has been stressed they are not being treated as suspects.According to local reports, another British couple who had been staying at the Ocean Club apartments, from which Madeleine was apparently kidnapped, were interviewed yesterday.The Correio da Manha newspaper also reported that police sniffer dogs had picked up a trail from Madeleine's apartment to another one, occupied by Britons who left around the time of her disappearance.Other reports said three other people were also interviewed today, having been stopped by police on a beach. It was not known whether any of those questioned were suspects or simply potential witnesses.There has been no news on any progress in tracking down three suspects seen driving a car with British number plates. The three are central to police inquiries, according to reports.Police are understood to have been given CCTV footage of two men and a woman at a petrol station near Praia da Luz taken on the night Madeleine went missing. According to local newspapers, one of the men and the woman, who was described as blonde and in her 40s, were photographing young children in a nearby town days before Madeleine's disappearance. When challenged by the father of one of the children, they fled, Correio de Manha said.