A man with learning difficulties, who was grilled for two days by detectives without being allowed to wash and with only scant food, was cleared yesterday of a murder for which he spent nearly 20 years in jail.The appeal court quashed the 1979 conviction of Anthony Steel, 46, after hearing evidence that he had broken down under questioning far too harsh for such a vulnerable man. Mr Steel, a gardener, confessed to killing 20-year-old Carol Wilkinson, a Bradford bakery worker, and was convicted of murder. Lord Justice Rix, sitting with Mr Justice Henriques and Mr Justice Treacy in London, yesterday said that new evidence from consultant psychologists had decided the appeal. Doctors called by both sides agreed Mr Steel had been much more suggestible than was realised when he confessed. "They took the view that he is and was mentally handicapped and at the borderline of abnormal suggestibility and compliability," Lord Justice Rix said. "He was therefore a significantly more vulnerable interviewee than could be appreciated at the time." Had the jury in 1979 had access to this view they might have taken a more sceptical view of his confession, made on the third day of his interviews with detectives. After the hearing, Mr Steel repeated calls he has made for West Yorkshire police to interview another man, who is in jail for a different offence. "If everything the police knew had come out before my trial, I would never have been found guilty," he said. "All this time there has been one man who knows what really happened. The police should interview him. They can still find out the identity of the real murderer of Carol Wilkinson." Mr Steel was released on licence in 1998 when his conviction was referred to the criminal cases review commission. The killing in October 1977 made legal history as the first in Britain where a murder victim was certified dead before her life support machine had been switched off. Wilkinson died of head injuries after she was attacked as she walked to work in Bradford. Police denied that Mr Steel had not been allowed to see a solicitor.