When the smartly dressed gentleman walked into Graff jewellers in Mayfair asking to see a selection of rings, staff politely avoided staring at his incongruous black wig.As sales assistants at the exclusive store, which is graced by celebrities such as Naomi Campbell, Mike Tyson and the Beckhams, they were used to seeing customers wearing very obvious disguises when they came in to peruse their gems. "We deal with millionaires and billionaires and often they don't want to be recognised," said one salesman. "I've seen people with plastic noses, even masks." But Nebojsa Denic was no paranoid celebrity. Armed and violent, the Montenegrin Serb and his accomplice, "Marco" were members of a gang of international jewel thieves responsible for a string of multimillion-pound robberies in Spain, France, Germany, Switzerland, Belgium and Japan. As a store assistant walked over to help him, Denic pulled out a Magnum handgun and ordered the staff to the floor while Marco emptied the contents of two jewellery cabinets into a bag - pulling off Britain's biggest diamond raid in just three minutes. For Denic, however, the success was short-lived. Outside the store he fired off a shot as a security guard manhandled him to the ground. Marco fled on a scooter with jewellery worth £23m in a bag on his shoulder. As Denic, 34, was convicted of conspiracy to rob and firearms offences at the Old Bailey yesterday, police said they were investigating the gang's involvement in a £20m diamond robbery in Japan last March, in which the robbers fled with a £17m necklace encrusted with 116 diamonds and known as the Comtesse de Vendôme. They revealed that Marco, whose real name is Pedja Vujosevic, is an international jewel thief and master of disguises who is wanted all over the world. Following the Graff raid he was arrested in France two months ago in a robbery in Paris. British police hope to interview him soon with the intention of gaining an extradition order for him to face trial for the Mayfair robbery. Known by Interpol, Vujosevic had visited Graff Jewellers in New Bond Street in early May last year with his girlfriend, Gorana Pajic, ostensibly looking for a £3,000 engagement ring. Three weeks later he returned with Denic, 34, a fellow Montenegrin who had access to pump action shotguns, Lugers and Magnums. He had flown into London from Switzerland on a £50 easyJet flight for the occasion. When the men walked in staff glanced at Denic's ill-fitting black wig, which so obviously did not match his brown sideburns, but put it down to a rock star-like eccentricity. As he sat waiting for a salesman Denic pulled out the Magnum, stood up and thrust it towards the staff. He was ice cold and calculated as he threatened them, a sales assistant recalled. "It was like a Dirty Harry gun, a .44 Magnum. It was so long his arm went up in the air as he pulled this pistol out." One saleswoman told how she had slumped in obedience to the floor and ws convinced that he would kill them all. A few minutes later Reginald Singh, who owns an art gallery in nearby Cork Street, happened to glance out of his window and see two men locked in a bearhug. He heard the crack of a gunshot as Denic pointed the Magnum at a store guard, Simon Stearman, and fired. The bullet ricocheted off a building and grazed a receptionist who was walking down the road in her lunch break. "I had to take him to the ground - that was the only way," said Mr Stearman, a Falklands war veteran, recalling how the adrenaline kept him going. "After I had taken him to the floor I was in a rage. The worst thing I could think of to do was to pull his wig off. I did and I told him he looked stupid -with a lot of expletives." Mr Singh did not at first realise what was happening. "I initially thought it was a film," he said. "Then I looked to see where the cameras were - there were none." Held down by Mr Stearman, Denic was arrested and police were led to the third member of the gang, Milan Jovetic, a Ser bian who had bought the getaway scooter through Loot in May last year. When police raided his flat in Bayswater they initially found no sign of the jewels. But during a more thorough search they discovered a £500,000 diamond ring wrapped in clingfilm and hidden in a pot of baby cream. Jovetic, 24, who later pleaded guilty to conspiracy to rob and handling stolen goods, had given the ring to his fiancee on their engagement. It was one of only 20 diamonds to be recovered from the heist. Nineteen were found when they were sent by a company in Israel to a grading factory in New York where the diamonds, each of which is as unique as a fingerprint, were spotted as stolen. But the majority of the haul, a further 27 gems worth £20m, have disappeared into the international black market in stolen jewels. · Denic and Jovetic are due in court for sentencing today.