Four men were today found guilty of murdering Charlene Ellis and Letisha Shakespeare in a drive-by shooting at a new year party in Birmingham two years ago.The panel of seven women and five men at Leicester crown court came to a majority decision after spending more than 14 hours deliberating. Charlene, 18, and Letisha, 17, were gunned down outside the Uniseven hairdressing salon in Aston, Birmingham, in the early hours of January 2 2003. The prosecution claimed the shooting was a "botched" revenge attack by one rival gang on another. Charlene's half-brother Marcus Ellis, 24; Michael Gregory, 23; Nathan Martin, 26; and 20-year-old Rodrigo Simms, who are all alleged to be members of the Burger Bar Boys gang, were today convicted of the murder. The four men were also convicted of three counts of attempting to murder Charlene's twin sister, Sophia, and their friend Cheryl Shaw. Three of the defendants, Martin, Gregory and Ellis, were also convicted of attempting to murder another partygoer, Leon Harris. Simms was cleared of the same charge.The verdict on the first count faced by Martin was greeted with a cheer from the public gallery. On hearing their guilty verdicts, Ellis and Simms both shook their heads while Martin and Gregory sat impassively in the dock.A fifth man and the alleged target of the shooting, Jermaine Carty, 24, was cleared of possessing a firearm on the night of the shooting. He was alleged to be a member of the rival Johnson Crew and taunted the Burger Bar Boys on stage at a Solihull nightclub earlier in the evening. The crown alleged this was a "catalyst" for the shooting.Martin is also said to have wanted to avenge the death of his brother, Yohanne, who was shot dead in West Bromwich in December 2002 in an attack blamed on the Johnson Crew.The four men charged with murder had denied any links to gangs and of having any knowledge of the shooting. They also rejected claims linking them to a number of mobile phones said to have been used in and around the salon in the minutes before the shootings and near where the car was later found burned out.The guilty verdicts were all by majority, with the exception of the twins' half-brother Marcus, who was convicted unanimously. They will be sentenced on Monday.Afterwards, West Midlands chief crown prosecutor, David Blundell, said: "Bringing this case to court could hardly have been more challenging. The shooting was a horrific act of violence and because of the close links between many of those at the party, witnesses were reluctant to approach police for fear of reprisals - let alone attend court."The families of the victims said they were "very pleased" with the verdicts and praised the police and the witnesses who gave evidence. Sophia Ellis told a news conference: "Charlene was my other half and she was taken away before she could live her life in full."Letisha's mother, Marcia Shakespeare, 38, said the case had been a long ordeal but the courts had returned the "right result". Gun crime was a "terrible thing that has brought misery to my family", she said, adding that she had a message to those who did not give evidence that they "had to live with this".Ms Shakespeare said her daughter had simply been having a night out, had no connection to feuding gangs, and would be remembered as the "beautiful, fun- loving girl she was".He paid tribute to the courage of prosecution witnesses, including Cheryl Shaw and Sophie Ellis, who were seriously injured in the shooting. "Giving evidence in any case is not an easy thing to do," he said. "In this particular case, the prosecution witnesses showed great courage in being prepared to come to court and see justice done. From the start the CPS [Crown Prosecution Service] and West Midlands police knew that a future court case would demand extreme witness care and we drew up a witness strategy in the weeks following the shooting." Lawyers for the defendants said it was likely an appeal would be launched against at least some of the convictions."The whole defence will appeal," said Errol Robinson, the solicitor for Ellis and Simms. "It may be an application that goes beyond the domestic courts to the European Court. There has been a grave miscarriage of justice following one of the most unfair trials of modern times."Spencer Stephens, solicitor for Gregory, said he anticipated that his client would appeal. Martin's solicitor declined to comment at this stage.Before and during the trial, the defendants' barristers continually expressed concerns that prosecution witnesses had been allowed to give evidence anonymously. Unprecedented special measures were put in place to ensure the witnesses could testify without fear of reprisals.The Court of Appeal upheld Mr Justice Goldring's decision to allow the witnesses to be anonymous provided the jury were told how this hampered the efforts of the defence counsel to cross-examine them. Police said today this had brought a new era in which the "so-called untouchables" had been "touched". College students Charlene and Letisha were gunned down at 4.08am on Churchill Parade, off Birchfield Road, Aston, as they took some air outside the party. They were hit by a burst from an illegal MAC-10 semi-automatic submachine gun, fired from a red Ford Mondeo, that also left Sophia Ellis and Cheryl Shaw injured.Leon Harris escaped unharmed in another burst of fire seconds later from a 9mm 1944 Spanish Llama pistol aimed at a Ford Orion car in which he was sitting. The Mondeo, which had been bought just days before the shootings and had its windows tinted, was later found burnt-out in a community centre car park in Smethwick in an attempt to hid the evidence. A forensic examination later found spent and live ammunition that matched that used outside the hair salon. Mobile phone evidence also put the men in and around the hair salon and the community centre at the time of the attack.