The Metropolitan police is to review how it conducts rape investigations following a sharp decline in the number of successful prosecutions, it emerged yesterday.Sir Ian Blair, the Met's police commissioner, has ordered an urgent review of procedures in order to establish why clear-up rates in London vary widely between boroughs. It will focus on what causes such differences to exist and is due to report within two months. Only one in five reported rapes in London results in a caution or a charge. The review, led by the deputy assistant commissioner, Brian Paddick, will try to establish why the rate is so low and examine whether the number and calibre of officers investigating rape cases can explain the variations, or if other factors are to blame. In an interview on Radio 4's Broadcasting House yesterday, Mr Paddick said that Sir Ian, who wrote a textbook on rape investigation 20 years ago, wanted a consistently excellent service across London. He said it was, as yet, unclear why clear-up rates varied widely across boroughs and why there were discrepancies. He would examine in depth a sample of cases from across London. Mr Paddick said: "It's a very difficult offence to investigate and in many, many cases it is clearly simply one person's word against the other. We do everything we possibly can to help support the victims of rape and we prepare as strong a case as we possibly can and present that to the Crown Prosecution Service, but it's the Crown Prosecution Service that inevitably makes the decision as to whether a case actually gets to court or not." In February, Home Office research revealed that the conviction rate in rape cases was at an all-time low and that rape was a crime which went largely unreported. The study found that only 5.6% of allegations led to a rapist being punished, despite long-running government efforts to boost results. Researchers found there was a "culture of scepticism" towards rape victims among police and prosecutors, which led victims to lose confidence in the system. Out of a total 11,766 allegations of rape made in 2002 there were just 655 convictions. In 258 cases the rapist pleaded guilty and the remainder were convictions at trial. The overall number of convictions fell by nearly half a percentage point from 6% the previous year. The government modified rape laws in 2002 in an effort to tackle the low conviction rates and to "rebalance the system in favour of rape victims". The Sexual Offences Act 2003 clarified the law on consent; measures in the Criminal Justice Act 2003 aimed to rebalance the system in favour of victims; and under the 2002 police Rape Action Plan all forces had to review their facilities for examining victims. A Metropolitan police spokesman said the force would be "reviewing the number of rape allegations which are no crime'd and trying to establish why there are variations between boroughs in this category".The number of rape allegations which resulted in a successful prosecution has caused concern for some time. The force was committed under its Project Sapphire initiative to always believe a victim who made a rape allegation. "Sapphire's whole ethos is the sympathetic treatment of any person making an allegation," said the spokesman. "Due to the work Sapphire has undertaken we are seeing an increase in the number of allegations made to us as victims are more confident in reporting the crime."