Donal MacIntyre is fresh from the set of Five's mid-morning chat show, The Wright Stuff, and, flush with adrenalin, is bounding about full of smiles. He is a celebrity, of sorts. But the chirpy blandness of daytime TV sits oddly with his role as investigator into the seamier side of society, a man who makes films about abuse, violence and organised crime.When he finally relaxes into a chair, I ask him about his recent fly-on-the-wall documentary series for Five, in which he recorded with startling candour the everyday lives of some of Britain's most notorious gangsters and their associates. It provided at times jaw-dropping insights into the banal viciousness of the criminal mind, and the relationship between crime, poverty and violence.Even by MacIntyre's standards, the first programme in the series about the Noonans, a family based in a rundown housing estate in Moston in north Manchester, was controversial. It showed the Noonan gang leaders, Dominic and his elder brother, Dessi, boast of their criminal activities, get arrested, go to court and (most times) get off. It exposed how a culture of gang camaraderie and easy cash sucks disillusioned, deprived youngsters from the wider family and the community into crime.MacIntryre had what can only be described as extraordinary access to the main characters involved and, because of it, was able to produce some chilling viewing. He believes his reputation for putting himself in dangerous environments probably helped him win the trust of the family.Critics were uneasy, to say the least, about his relationship with the Noonans. Some felt the film glamorised their lives. MacIntyre says he wasn't taken in by the gang: "I would say, 'guys, I don't condone your work, I think you should all be in jail and I think you should be serving long prison sentences. Tell me your story.'"The documentary — and MacIntyre himself — became embroiled in controversy, when, a few days before it was due to be broadcast, Dessie Noonan, the brother at the helm of the gang, was stabbed to death. The furore surrounding the programme serves only to distract from its core message, MacIntyre insists. He is, he says, more concerned about what the revelations tell us about the culture of criminality in areas such as Moston — criminality that is the by-product of extreme poverty and deprivation.It is the future of the young people caught up in the crime, that seems to affect him the most. That he feels for those involved is clear, but his conclusions about what lies ahead for them are far from reassuring. "The Asbo [antisocial behaviour order] generation, as I call them, are fucking terrifying," he says. "Dominic or Dessie are not a patch on the generation of 18- to 19-year-olds that are out there right now. These guys have no moral map."What does he mean?"I say to these guys, right, did anyone ever teach you right from wrong and they'll say: 'No one's taught me to read or fucking write. But I can count money!' These guys are in it for vicarious consumption — if they want something they will go and get it. They're treated like shit by their families and they're treated like shit by society, and they think 'nobody gives a shit about me so I'll look out for myself'."I ask him what he thinks the solution to the problem is? He looks slightly despondent. "It is very difficult to know because even spending time among the kids, they look completely unrescuable. It's the complete breakdown of the family unit and it is multi-generational and it is a multiplier effect, so it gets worse by a factor two or three with each generation."MacIntyre does acknowledge that some kids escape of their own accord: one of the teenage tearaways featured in the Noonan documentary is now an actor and has been playing a young offender. But on the whole, he despairs. "It is an apocalyptic future in some parts of Manchester."Over the years, MacIntyre has spread his wings beyond hardcore subjects such as crime (he recently did a documentary on dodgy dentists and dabbled briefly with extreme weather in a programme for the BBC). But he puts his heart, and his professional energy, into subjects often left untouched by other journalists.The one-time World in Action reporter first found himself in the spotlight in 1999 in his own BBC series, MacIntyre Undercover. In the programme he infamously stripped bare the world of drug-using teenage models and exposed abuse of older people in a care home (he won a libel action against Kent police who accused him of mis-editing). After the programme, the home in question was closed down. It remains, he says, his proudest achievement.Not everyone has appreciated his endeavours. On the back of his documentaries he has, among other things, been called a "crusading blunderbuss", an "overexposed, undercover TV news hunk", and "the action man of investigative journalism". A diary item in this newspaper once said of him: "If he could, he'd be in Lycra and a cape, fighting injustice wherever there is a camera to film it."He protests, banging his hand on the table. "Simply because I criticise the proliferation of drug use among teenage models or because I criticise abuse in care homes, they accuse me of being fucking po-faced. It's just wrong. You don't have to be a moral Mary Whitehouse to say this."But for all MacIntyre's bombast (he concedes that he is, at times, "bolshy and angry"), there is a softer side to him. He is amiable. He can be funny, too. That MacIntyre feels misunderstood is clear, but it does appear sometimes, I suggest to him, as if he courts attention by putting himself in potentially dangerous situations. Does he ever feel afraid?"Yes."But not enough to stop? "I am unseasonably optimistic," he says, attributing the characteristic to his mother. "I don't feel the worst is going to happen so you don't have to worry about it, y'know?"Surely there were moments with the Noonans? "There were times when Dominic [Noonan] was chilling and ugly and terrifying, and we [the crew] would leave." He adds. "Every time I met Dessi, he would say, 'I'm gonna fuckin' kill you', and I'd say 'yeah, yeah, yeah'."I ask why he does it. "The thing about it is, to be passionate about care homes, to be interested in people who are on the edge and suffer from great poverty and trauma . . . doesn't necessarily define great dysfunctionality or scars from childhood. I am just interested in people and I am genuinely interested in the underdog."The CVAge 39.Born Dublin.Status Single.Lives West London.Education St Patrick's national school, Dublin; BA in politics and economics, University College, Dublin; MA in communications policy, City University, London.Career 1989-91: reporter, Sunday Tribune, Ireland, and other newspapers; 1992-97: freelance reporting and undercover reporting with World in Action; 1998-2001: undercover reporter and presenter, BBC; 2001-present: documentary maker, presenter and producer, Five.Posts Mencap ambassador, and works with the charity, Action Against Elderly Abuse.Interests Canoeing, climbing, friends, family and cinema.