Four teenagers have been arrested in connection with the murder of a 17-year-old whose beaten and partially stripped body was found washed up on a beach in Swansea, police said today.Officers arrested the teenagers - two aged 15 and two aged 17 - at an address in Swansea, south Wales, early this morning after Ben Bellamy's body was discovered on Sunday. The four are currently being questioned at Cockett police station in Swansea.Detective Superintendent Ken Isaac, who is leading the murder inquiry, yesterday said police were looking for seven young men in connection with the murder. At a press conference today, he appealed for the other members of the group to come forward.In a statement, Ben's parents described him as a "caring, loving, considerate boy who would never hurt anyone". "He cared about everyone and always tried to help anyone less fortunate than himself," the statement said. "He was an extremely intelligent boy looking forward to going to university."Ben, from Sketty Park, Swansea, had spent Saturday night at Cinderella's nightclub in nearby Mumbles. He was last seen at 3.30am on CCTV footage at a Texaco garage on the seafront, several miles from the club, with seven men.Six hours later, a man walking his dog discovered Ben's body on the beach opposite St Helen's rugby club. A post mortem confirmed he had suffered severe head injuries.Ben's relatives this morning made an appeal for more information. His uncle, 44-year-old Tony Rees, read out a message from the teenager's younger brother, Karl."Since everyone who knew Ben found out about this, we have all died and woken up into a nightmare," it said. "If anyone has any information to change this nightmare into some form of reality, then please don't hesitate to come forward." Ben's parents, Tracy Gwynn and John Bellamy, were too distraught to attend the press conference.· Anyone with any information about the murder inquiry should call the incident room on 01792 562 731 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.