On an ancient Egyptian tomb, there's the following inscription:"Who hears my speech will grieve for it, For I am a small child snatched by force, Abridged in years as an innocent one, Snatched quickly as a little one, Like a man carried off by sleep."The epitaph is proof, if ever we doubted it, that the loss of children has always provoked intense grief, even in cultures where such losses are commonplace. But here the words "snatched by force" are a metaphor for a death by natural causes. And when the inscription goes on to accuse the adult world of failing to save the child ("All the men of the town, /Not one of them could protect me!"), this is simply an expression of helplessness in the face of mortality.These days the abductions and accusations are all too literal. James Bulger, Ben Needham, Sarah Payne, Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells (on the front pages of newspapers competing to offer the biggest reward), and now Madeleine McCann - since 1993, the story of lovely, smiling children snatched from a seemingly safe environment has run time and again. With Madeleine, as with Ben Needham, there's still an outside chance that the story might not end in tragedy. But whatever the outcome, the escalating obsession with such cases seems indisputable. Why? It's not that the crime of child abduction is on the increase. But nor, despite their routine scaremongering about paedophile strangers, are the tabloids wholly to blame for creating the interest. The darker truth may be that we intermittently need to see our worst nightmares acted out for us as a form of catharsis. And though children can be "lost" (and are, tragically, every year, in vast numbers) for a variety of reasons - through disease and famine, in car accidents, to drugs, alcohol, prostitution and domestic violence - the image of the bogeyman who comes from nowhere to snatch away a child is both the greatest parental fear and metaphor for all the others.The cultural preoccupation with lost children certainly predates the Bulger case. It's there, for instance, in Ian McEwan's The Child in Time (1987), which opens with a man remembering how he lost his three-year-old daughter in a supermarket: two years on, he constantly revisits the scene in his head, desperate "to find that shrouded figure at the periphery of vision, the one who was always to the side and slightly behind, who, filled with a strange desire, was calculating odds, or simply waiting". Further back, there are William Blake's Songs of Experience ("The weeping child could not be heard; /The weeping parents wept in vain"). The difference is that whereas once we looked to literature or the cinema to express our fears for us, now we look to the media, which through its increasingly intimate access to personal trauma provides an extra frisson of authenticity.Our fears for our own children aren't incompatible with a concern for other people's, and public sympathy for the McCanns has been a source of solace to the family. But it's difficult to see how their lives can begin again, in whatever way, until the media circus has decamped. "All the town's people, men and women /Lamented very greatly /Because they saw what happened to me," goes the inscription on that Egyptian tomb.Lamentation for Madeleine McCann isn't in order yet. We pray against the odds for a day of rejoicing. But, meanwhile, a period of silence would be best.·  Blake Morrison is the author of As If (Granta books), about the Bulger case