A pregnant woman cut the throats of her three children, killing two of them, and took rat poison because she saw no point in living, the Old Bailey heard today .Sasikala Navaneethan also said she was being beaten by her husband and did not want to leave her children behind. She stabbed and cut the throats of son Shanjayan, five, daughter Sharani, four, and her six-month-old baby girl.Police found the three children lined up on a bed at the family home in Carshalton, Surrey, in May last year. Navaneethan, 37, from Sri Lanka, pleaded guilty to two offences of manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. She also pleaded guilty to the attempted murder of baby Trishana, who survived despite a severe neck wound. She was committed to a psychiatric hospital indefinitely.A note written by Navaneethan was found under the bed along with her matrimonial necklace and three knives. It alleged her husband had a clandestine affair with two women and added: "I screamed in tears. Nobody has helped me … I have killed my children. My husband's been kicking me. I don't want him and I don't want the kids."Navaneethan had also caused knife wounds to her neck and had taken both weedkiller and rat killer poison. Her husband Navarajah, 39, said he worked from 6.30am to 11pm running a shop and off-licence in Croydon. He told police their family life was happy. The local medical centre said Navaneethan had never complained of any mental health problems. But the court heard that she had suffered a breakdown when she was 18 during the Sri Lankan civil war before coming to Britain.She told hospital psychiatrists she had been suffering from depression after Trishana's birth and was having delusions. Dr Paul Chesterman said she had reacted to her domestic situation, sense of isolation and because of her mental illness.Judge Brian Barker, told Navaneethan: "This is a profoundly sad and tragic case. It seems to me your turmoil and your actions are virtually impossible for an outsider to understand. This is the case of a sick person who continues to be sick now. You need treatment rather than punishment."David Etherington QC, defending, said cultural expectations may have resulted in Navaneethan being unable to tell her GP she was mentally unwell."She believed there was no point in her living any longer and she could not leave the children with her husband," he said.Navaneethan, he said, had responded to medication and was filled with terrible guilt about what she had done.The couple, who are Tamils, moved to Britain five years ago. Friends said they were in debt as her husband's business had been badly affected by a bypass that severely reduced passing trade.Navaneethan was originally charged with murder but the prosecution accepted the lesser plea after psychiatrists agreed she was suffering from a mental illness at the time of the killings. She gave birth to another daughter six months after the killings while being treated in a secure hospital.