In the 1970s my parents, Murdoch and Rosalind Mitchison, built their dream home on an abandoned estate in East Lothian, about 15 miles south of Edinburgh. It had everything you could wish for: a ruined dower house, a wood with an old chapel, a walled garden, landscaped pastures, a folly, even an ancient yew tree.Murdoch and Rosalind brought in an adventurous young architect who duly designed them an adventurous house – an L-shaped bungalow with a light tower and a pond that went inside the house, and doors everywhere out on to their wonderful garden.Some of the problems with the house quickly became apparent. The light tower turned into a graveyard for flies, and the innovative garden pond was a conduit for pure Scots cold. But my parents didn't care. They ignored the flies and blocked up the pond every autumn. And they loved their bungalow. It had everything they wanted: views over fields, a large, tree-filled garden, a proper-sized larder where my mother stockpiled jam and my father stored his crates of wine and spirits.My parents' life was most convivial. My father was a great conversationalist and they were generous hosts, the tables laden with fruit, salty snacks and a basket of chocolate bars. The bookcase by my father's chair was fitted out with a spectrum of malt whiskies and interesting armagnacs. Pinned to the front door was a handwritten card. "Come in and shout," it said. And that's exactly what their friends did.A few others popped in, too. For a while my parents noticed a mystery intruder was removing fruit from their kitchen table – it turned out to be mice. And then, a gilt baroque clock disappeared. But neither of my parents seemed unduly concerned, and indeed Murdoch felt quite gratified because the thieves had overlooked his priceless Chinese grave figure, which was a horrible little terracotta man with weird protruding nipples that lived on the drinks bookcase.And so the years rolled by and the shrubs grew up round the house. In 2002, my mother died after a stroke and my father was left on his own. By 2007 Murdoch, in his mid-80s, was frail and barely able to walk. His mind was usually sharp – very sharp – but his spirits were uncertain. And he was lonely.One morning Murdoch's housekeeper, Jean, noticed the television digibox had vanished. Murdoch padded round the house making more unwelcome discoveries. His cash had gone, and his credit cards. He looked in the drawer in the study – were there fewer keys than before? He wasn't sure. And then the filing cabinets. He didn't seem able to find some documents, including a list of the valuables for his insurance company. And the stock of wine and spirits had been thinned.In the following days, on at least two occasions, more money, more drink and a few small electrical items were removed. Clearly there was a burglar making regular visits. In fact, he was treating the house as if it were his own. He helped himself to the chocolate bars, leaving the wrappers on the floor.Over the next couple of weeks, my father phoned the police repeatedly. He didn't get much joy. A burglar who stole only small quantities of cash and cruised the chocolates didn't seem to impress them. They made a few visits, but no offender was apprehended.Some elderly people would have been terrified. But Murdoch was made of sterner stuff. He was annoyed by the break-ins – it was a bother and an inconvenience, and he hated having to lock his front door, which really meant locking out his friends, and locking out the emergency services if he fell.But he was also intrigued. Murdoch was by nature curious – he had been a research scientist all his life. He always liked to find out how things worked. Now that the front door was locked, how was the burglar getting in? And who was he anyway?One evening in October my phone rang in Bristol. It was 6.10, which was our normal chat time, when the evening telephone tariffs came in. He'd be in his chair, G&T in his hand, the Chinese grave figure leering down on him, the curtains still open on to the view of silver birches and the fields beyond."He's been again," said Murdoch firmly."What's he taken?""Just money," he replied. "I put £10 in a wallet and left it on the dining room table.""You what?""Just to see," said Murdoch coolly. "I wanted to know if he'd take it. And he has."I spoke to one of my sisters. She was furious about the lack of police response. Murdoch was old, disabled, vulnerable. Why were there no surveillance cameras? What about an alarm? Had anyone searched the woods? And why hadn't the house been properly fingerprinted? The police, she said, weren't even trying."But he's not frightened," I said. "He's even started conducting experiments. He's laying bait for the burglar.""That's not the point," said my sister. "What if he meets the burglar? What if Murdoch gets knocked over and breaks a hip."My sister is a doctor. Breaking a hip, she explained, was often a turning point for old people. Some never really recovered.I flew up to Scotland for the weekend.On Saturday morning, PC Murray Cairns visited. He was a nice man, discreet, sympathetic and, on this occasion, a bit stunned. He said nothing when he saw the vast unlocked larder full of drink, and the two boxes of Gordon's gin stacked in the front hall. He nodded politely when Murdoch explained that, as he didn't go out much, he liked to keep a good supply of cash in the house.We went round the outside – checking the front door, the back door, the conservatory door, the pantry door, the four sets of french windows with light metal frames. Showing Cairns round, watching that silent blink, was instructive. I saw my father's circumstances in a new and most unwelcome way. For any petty burglar, the house, so secluded and so cash- and drink-filled, was a ripe plum. The burglar had eight doors to choose from. And everywhere trees, tall bushes, secret paths – nobody would see you but the goldfish. And if someone chanced to come up the drive – we were at least a mile from the road – there were the woods nearby and the ruins of the old dower house: a quick get‑away would be so easy.  Murdoch Mitchison would wake in the morning and find that £30 had gone from his wallet. Or had he spent it? Was he sure? Did he believe himself? Did his family and friends believe him? Photograph: The ScotsmanAnd as for Murdoch, a burglar couldn't hope for more. He was an old man, sedentary, predictable in his habits and crippled by arthritis. In his prime Murdoch had walked the Alps, and the Eildon hills of the borders. Now watching him made you want to weep – he moved like King Kong. There would be no chases; the burglar could come and go as he pleased.Later, I walked around my father's garden. At the back of the bungalow lay the ruins of the old dower house. I walked up the magnificent stone steps into the first "room" of the ruin, where my father had planted shrubs and put down a small path with a seat at the end. There were paper tissues scattered near the seating area and, leaning against a wall, was a bicycle. I was looking at it, wondering how on earth it got there, when an angry voice came from behind me."That's ma bike!"I turned. There, holding a large piece of cardboard, was a sallow, dark-haired young man with a long lantern jaw and terrible acne. I muttered something apologetic.But he glowered on: "Ma bike!"And then he started to speak at length in very broad Scots. I was completely floored. All I could pick out were a few words. Something about a "wasp's nest". He showed me an ineffectual little fire he'd made under a tree. He started to fan the fire with the piece of cardboard, but it was a wet autumn day.I walked back to the bungalow. I made a cup of tea in the kitchen and mused about this odd encounter.Why on earth had I ended up apologising? The man wasn't only trespassing, he had taken possession. It was almost as if he owned the ruin, not us … And then it dawned on me. I had seen our burglar.I nipped outside again. The little fire was out. The man and his bike had gone.On Sunday night the burglar came again. He also popped round to my father's neighbour, Ulrich, and relieved him of his camera and some foreign currency. On Monday morning, Jean saw a dark-haired man behaving suspiciously near the ruins. I telephoned the police to tell them that both Jean and I had seen the burglar. I described him and offered to identify him and make a statement. But the police said they already had a suspect.That night the burglar dropped in on Murdoch again. Maybe not "dropped in". "Came to stay" was a better description. The man rifled through the filing cabinets in the study, went into my father's bedroom and stole coins from his trouser pocket. I'm not sure whether, on that occasion, the burglar helped himself to a drink in the sitting room, but he certainly tried out the salty snacks. He didn't like the wasabi peas and spat them out across the carpet. Then, it seems, he had a kip in the spare bedroom. He left behind a toothbrush.Jean came the following day. The spare bedroom bed was all crumpled and used. Had he really slept the night there, or had the bed been unmade before? She wasn't sure. But then somebody had smoked a cigarette in the bathroom at the far end of the house – she could distinctly smell it. And someone was definitely hanging out in the ruins – here Ulrich's family found their foreign coins, soiled tissues, a cigar box, a syringe.Murdoch called the police, Ulrich called the police, I called the police. Again and again. But it was like grasping at air. It soon became clear that many of the burglaries Murdoch reported were not being logged. And if they were logged, the cases were assigned to different officers. Burglary number CR/0083404/07 was being dealt with by PC Cairns. But burglary CR/085409/07 was under the care of DC Higgenbottom. And Higgenbottom was away on annual leave.So who was Murdoch to talk to? There were the police based in Tranent who were meant to cover the area where my father lived. Meanwhile the housebreaking team, an entirely separate entity, worked out of Dalkeith. Then there were the forensics specialists, the home-security advisers, victim support…The individual police were normally charming, but collectively they were a shower. After about a month of nothing happening, I brought an official complaint. Eventually a reply arrived on splendid stationery with a watermarked coat of arms featuring two white lions rampant. Deputy chief constable Thomas Halpin wrote, "I apologise that on this occasion in your dealings with Lothian and Borders police you felt the need to complain." An apology letter utilising the verb "to feel" is not an apology. We were on our own.The break-ins continued. We did some more barricading of the house, locking off the bottom wing of the bungalow, putting sections of wood in the runners of the french windows to block them. Some locks were replaced. My father had a keypad fitted on the front door.But nothing changed. The slow, sly little raids continued. Sometimes he'd prise open a french window and there would be muddy footprints, maybe a dirty towel in one of the bathrooms, and something obviously missing. Other times it was a quick in-out for cash and a bottle. Sometimes we were still baffled how he'd got in.The police officially logged 12 burglaries in the first three years, but there were many, many more break-ins that we reported. We didn't keep a tally but Jean, who came three times a week to clean the house and care for Murdoch, remarked that there were times when she felt the burglar was coming more often than she was.Jean even met the burglar on the bus and later we discussed the protocol. What do you say? Should you confront him? And once, coming up to the front door, she saw a hand with a cigarette hanging languidly out from one of the walls of the ruin. She phoned the police, but by the time they came he had snuck off.  My father told me he put £10 in a wallet and left it on the dining room table, just to see if the burglar would take it. And he did. Illustration: Matt Murphy for the GuardianEventually the police shook themselves awake. One day I received a call from Dalkeith police station. They wondered if I would be able to come and identify the man I had seen in the ruin. That Saturday, I visited Dalkeith police station. I brought along my younger son, Ted, then aged about 11. He was thrilled at the prospect and I felt that at least somebody in our family should get some pleasure from this wretched affair.At the station, two very friendly plain-clothes officers brought us into a small, windowless room. Ted sat by my side chirping, "Can we see the prisoners? Can we see the jail?"I looked through a booklet of male mugshots. I looked. I looked again. It was harder than I expected. Then, from the sea of faces, the burglar suddenly emerged."That's him," I said, pointing at the lantern jaw, the spots."Who? Let's see! Let's see!" said Ted.The policeman whipped the book away."Did I get it right?" I said."We couldn't possibly comment," said one of the officers. But their faces were wreathed in smiles.Now we all knew who the burglar was. And the police, on their various hopeless visits, filled in the picture a little more. They gave up being discreet. We talked about the burglar by name. He suffered from a drug problem and lived in a local small town. He apparently had a girlfriend and a small child.And yet the police still didn't act. Repeatedly Murdoch was told they had insufficient evidence to secure a conviction. Even trails that seemed pretty clear to us – for example, my father's stolen cheques being cashed by the burglar's girlfriend's sister – were not apparently enough to nail him.Sometimes I wondered if we were being overcritical. We weren't police. We didn't know the problems they faced. But then my niece Stephanie, who is a policewoman, visited. She wandered around Murdoch's house in plastic gloves. She found an earprint against the outside of the glass of the most recently broken into french window. Outside, she picked up two silver spoons belonging to the house. In the ruins she collected some shitty tissues, from which DNA could be extracted. She went to the local police with her evidence and with news of the earprint. But we heard nothing more.What is astonishing is the length of time this situation persisted and how casual and "at home" the burglar became. On the part of the police, it was a mixture of ageism and failure of imagination. They never did seem to realise how corrosive cumulative petty crime can be for the old and vulnerable.And how did Murdoch take it? Sometimes he was really rattled. Other times he joked that the burglar added drama and interest to his life. My father wasn't a greedy man or materialistic. He'd never liked money much and wasn't interested in it – so losing some funds was not the end of the world. He was pretty redoubtable; he wasn't even spooked by the burglar snooping on him from the garden. Murdoch didn't sit quaking in his chair thinking "what if". The what-iffing was left to the rest of us – his children and his friends.Yet the burglar impinged on my father's life in so many ways. Firstly, he undermined his basic belief in the fairness of civil society – weren't the police meant to be there to protect you? Also, because apparently nothing could be done about the burglar, everyone's attention turned to Murdoch. All sorts of elements of his life and his open-handed hospitality were called into question. Why didn't he gear up and buy CCTV cameras? (He considered them outrageously expensive.) Why did he keep so much drink in the house? (It was one of his last remaining pleasures.) Why were the curtains open at night? (It's hard to close curtains when you walk with a stick.) And anyway, shouldn't Murdoch be living somewhere less cut-off? The implication was that the burglaries were his fault.There was a subtler, more insidious side-effect, too. Murdoch was not a chaotic man, but he was getting older and more forgetful. The normal fixtures of reality – what was where and when – began to slither in his mind. Murdoch would wake in the morning and find that £30 had gone from his wallet. Or had he spent it? Was he sure? Did he believe himself? Did we believe him? Did he believe that we believed him? Did we believe that he believed that we didn't believe him? And so on.The police did finally get the burglar, and it was partly thanks to Murdoch's love of a good drink. One of his regular purchases was the Wine Society's blended scotch whisky. In fact he was the only Wine Society customer in East Lothian at that time who was buying this whisky. The police raided the burglar's flat and found bottles of the Wine Society's blended scotch.Eventually the police felt they had a sufficiently large body of evidence and the burglar was arrested and duly charged. Murdoch, Jean, Ulrich and I were all called as witnesses.On the day of the court hearing, we sat in the waiting room at Haddington sheriff court. Murdoch was in good spirits – he had been looking forward to the courtroom drama for weeks.Then came a long wait. I got talking to a young woman sitting opposite – she worked in the office of a local building company. For quite some time the builder had complained of remarkably high fuel bills. Then one day she saw our burglar siphoning out diesel from one of the lorries. A woman nearby joined in the conversation. She, too, had been burgled repeatedly. After a while an elderly man spoke of his burglaries. Gradually a picture built up. Our burglar, like a provincial judge, had a circuit.Eventually, a court official appeared and instructed us all to go home. The burglar had apparently changed his plea to guilty. He had ruined Murdoch's Grand Day Out.There followed a very nice period of respite. He was inside. Everyone could relax. But the break didn't last. If I recall correctly, it was a matter of months.One evening, just after six, the telephone rang."He's back!" said Murdoch.After his spell at Saughton prison our burglar bounced back, wilier and more determined. He had a new technique with the french windows and used a bit of wire to fish out the blocks of wood and prise open the doors. He never did us the favour of removing the horrible little Chinese man, but he penetrated Murdoch's safe, removing antique coins and medals.He stole Murdoch's computer twice and this was the cruellest blow. It caused my father more misery, distress and impotent rage than anything else. Replacing a computer always seems to entail an upgrade. After a gargantuan struggle, Murdoch mastered the first new batch of computer software. But, the second time round, and my father was 87 by this time, he felt thoroughly defeated.And by then the end was near anyway. Murdoch fell and broke his hip. He did it without the assistance of the burglar – the one time that wretched snoop could have been of some use and called 999 for us, he was elsewhere. The broken hip, as my sister predicted, was disastrous. From then on my father was confined to a wheelchair and lived in a care home until he died.At Murdoch's funeral, I made a speech welcoming my father's many friends and relations. I pointed out that one person most persistently present in Murdoch's life, one of his most constant companions, was missing – the burglar.That wasn't the end of it. The burglar hit back with a final posthumous raid. This time he went the whole hog, smashing down two doors, rolling back the garden fence and driving a car up to the house to carry away all the remaining alcohol. He made a night of it, and slept in the spare room bed; he always was the most intimate of thieves.• The paperback version of Mission Telemark by Amanda Mitchison (Walker Books) is out now.• This article was corrected on 25 November 2013 to include the end book credit.