Jane Earl, who has headed the Assets Recovery Agency since it was launched three years ago, takes a disarmingly candid line about its problems. "We were wildly optimistic," she says, in believing that each case would only take two years from start to finish. "It's turned out to be more than double that. I don't mind being judged over the matters over which I've got control."The career of the 49-year-old former Wokingham council chief executive did little to equip her for the glacial pace of the justice system. "We had three cases worth £3m-£4m that we definitely expected to come to court this year but they've been shifted back in the lists."She does not expect her agency, based near the Old Bailey, to break even this year, or probably next. She prefers to focus on her attempts to find ways round the delays. One is to offer mediation - "alternative dispute resolution" - to her targets who may not have been convicted but are alleged to have grown rich on the proceeds of "unlawful conduct". The first of these succeeded last week over property allegedly obtained via VAT "carousel" frauds."We have got nothing to lose," Ms Earl says "It's a relatively quick process." One of the advantages is that the other side is forced to say where it stands. "We have got 100 alleged criminals with £100m of assets that are no longer free and unfettered. They were previously untouched."But there are problems. The ARA temporarily freezes assets and then court-appointed receivers conduct a sometimes lengthy investigation. This leads to a final court hearing. Commercial receivers can run up big bills.Ms Earl admits this process puts pressure on the ARA to cut deals. "But it doesn't mean we're in the business of settling for 5% and only gaining a pyrrhic victory."The ARA is sailing uncharted legal waters. Its targets are bringing human rights and procedural challenges as a result. Ms Earl cannot hide her exasperation at this. She says it is not irrational for people to stall. "But it's frustrating when confronted with a range of delaying tactics ... they seem to operate on the basis of 'stick to your story and the ARA will eventually go away'. What we are involved in is like trench warfare but we will hold our nerve."One setback was a ruling that the ARA had to spell out just what kind of unlawful conduct it alleged. Ms Earl makes the best of it. "There is a spectrum of possible evidence starting from 'he's got a large house and no visible means of support'. We don't want to proceed on that basis. We never thought the basis of proof would be at that low end of the spectrum. But the most important thing is to prove the legislation. We have to be prepared to see test cases all the way through to Strasbourg."