Friends of the murdered teenager Ben Kinsella wore fancy dress and T-shirts bearing anti-knife crime slogans at his funeral today.Dozens of teenagers dressed in colourful wigs and big sunglasses as they celebrated the life of the 16-year-old, who died after being stabbed in north London during a night out on June 29.More than 1,000 people packed St John the Evangelist Roman Catholic church in Islington, north London, for the service. They included former EastEnders cast members Michelle Ryan, Gillian Taylforth and James Alexandrou, current stars of the soap Charlie G Hawkins and Joe Swash, and the Birds Of A Feather actor Linda Robson, whose 16-year-old son, Louis, was with Kinsella as he died.Kinsella's coffin was carried into the church by family members as the Michael Jackson song Ben was played.Before the service, his sister, Brooke Kinsella, the former EastEnders actor, pleaded for others to learn from his death and to lay down their weapons. The 24-year-old said: "Enough is enough. Do something now to make sure your brother, sister, son, or best friend's life doesn't end the same awful way."The problem is far worse than imagined. It's why we have to act so quickly. We have to inform youngsters and parents of the brutal truth and work hard, right now, to get rid of this menace."A poem written by Kinsella shortly before his murder, describing his happiness and hopes for the future, was read out to the congregation.It read: "So what comes next for me? God knows. I don't. This is my home now and I've never felt better. I'm not scared any more. There's no weight on my shoulders, no struggle. Let's just see what a future here brings. But at the moment, this is living. Not death."Outside the church, a friend, Brooke Dunford, 16, said: "He was a funny, bright boy. He wouldn't have wanted everyone to wear black." She laid a bunch of flowers with a note, which read: "The most saddest day of my life, Ben, when I lost you. I will hold you in my heart forever, I love you, you hottie." Kinsella was stabbed several times in York Way, Islington, after a fight in a bar spilled out on to the streets.In the days after he died, about 400 protesters marched along Upper Street in Islington to the scene of the killing to demand an end to knife crime. Last night, the fatal stabbing of 18-year-old Freddy Moody in south London brought the toll of teenagers killed violently in the capital this year to 21. Kinsella, a popular student at Holloway School in north London, appeared in an episode of the ITV police drama The Bill in 2004 and took after-school drama classes at the Young Actors Theatre in north London for more than a year. He sat GCSE exams before his death and was expected to have done well.Kinsella's family has set up a fund and website in his memory to raise awareness of the effects of gun and knife crime. Three teenagers have been charged with his murder. Juress Kika, 18, Michael Alleyne, 18, and Jade Braithwaite, 19, have been remanded in custody until October 13.