It was shocking, but also familiar. Sometimes when our brains go wrong they go wrong in uncannily similar ways. Last April, when Will Cornick was 15, he winked at a friend, stood up and stabbed his teacher seven times. Then he sat down and told the class, “Good times.” A psychiatrist diagnosed him with “psychopathic tendencies”.Unfortunately, the court decided it would be OK for the boy to be named. As a result, he’s now joined the ranks of famous British “psychopaths” – a label that will never go away. The word “demonised” was never more apt. A clinician friend, who works with adolescent offenders, is very angry about it. “Labelling children as psychopaths is not acceptable, full stop,” she says. Hence “tendencies”: professionals are careful to use terms for young people that avoid a permanent categorisation. Otherwise, “it suggests no chance of rehab or change. It places them with a specific class of others forever more.”It’s not just about children. The term is massively overused – by armchair sleuths and sometimes by clinicians. We love to label people we don’t like as psychopaths. We love to declare other people insane. Even so, some aspects of Cornick’s behavior seem straight out of the Hare psychopathy checklist (PCL-R), the gold standard for psychopathy diagnosis. There’s the absence of remorse and empathy, the grandiose self-worth (he’s reportedly enjoying the infamy), the cold planning, the glibness. He called the murder “fine and dandy”.On Monday he was sentenced to life in prison. That day, in Hong Kong, a British Merrill Lynch banker, Rurik Jutting, was remanded into custody. The bodies of two sex workers had been discovered at his apartment. Apparently he left an out-of-office email message suggesting people contact someone “who is not an insane psychopath”. His guilt is yet to be proven.The loved ones of both – the boy and the banker – say they noticed nothing much wrong. There had been no warning signs. Well, Jutting’s nickname at Winchester College had been “killer”, but that was because he shone on the rowing team. Cornick was polite and happy. Heartbreakingly, his parents stood in the dock with him as he was sentenced. “They are at a loss,” the prosecuting barrister said, “to understand how and why their son has turned out as he has”.It seems such a nihilistic story. Are psychopaths too cunning to display warning signs? This is the story of psychology’s hunt for warning signs.It was the French psychiatrist Philippe Pinel who first suggested, early in the 19th century, that there was a madness that didn’t involve mania or psychosis. He called it “manie sans délire”, insanity without delusions. He said sufferers appeared normal on the surface but were prone to outbursts of violence.Ever since, psychiatrists and psychologists have been like detectives or journalists, tempting suspects to reveal themselves through nuances of language. The hunt for warning signs is all about the hunt for linguistic clues.  The bodies of two sex workers were discovered at the apartment of Rurik Jutting, a British banker who had worked at Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong. Photograph: ReutersLeading the field since the 1970s is the veteran Canadian psychologist Robert Hare, inventor of the PCL-R checklist. When you think of modern psychopathy diagnosis, you think of his work. I attended one of his courses in 2009. It was in a marquee in West Wales. I was the only journalist there. The other attendees were care workers from secure units, trainee forensic psychologists. Hare showed us a video – an interview between his researcher and a murderer he called Case Study H.“Did you ever hurt anyone in a schoolyard fight?” Hare’s researcher asked the man. (Early behaviour problems and juvenile delinquency are two of the 20 items on the Hare checklist. Of course, pathologising the young is disturbing – we’re a mess when we’re children and teenagers. But Hare insists he’s looking for extreme, aberrant behaviour – torturing animals at 10, for example.)“No,” the man replied. “Just schoolyard shenanigans. I had a couple of incidences of fisticuffs. Well, one time I broke this kid’s arm. It was really distasteful. I was holding him down and I put excessive pressure on his arm and it just snapped. It was not something I wanted to happen.”There was something strangely shallow and disconnected about his words: “I put excessive pressure on his arm and it just snapped.” It was like he couldn’t quite place himself there.What they do, Hare says, is pretend to feel. They study us and learn how to ape us, but if we keep our eyes open, we can spot the fakery.Years ago, I interviewed a Haitian death squad leader, Toto Constant. It was a frustrating interview. All he did was protest his innocence, over and over. At one point, I heard a strange noise coming from him. It was something like sobbing. But it wasn’t quite sobbing. It was an approximation of sobbing. It was like hammy acting. A grown man was pretending to cry in front of me. They’re sometimes not as good at faking emotion as they think they are.Case Study H’s video testimony continued. Around the time he broke the kid’s arm, he locked his stepmother in a closet.“How did it feel to lock your stepmother in a closet?” the interviewer asked him.“It felt invigorating,” he replied. “It felt good. I had some power. I was in control. She was in the closet for nearly 12 hours. And then my father came home. He let her out. It was pathetic. She just sobbed.”Bob paused the video. One time, he said, he interviewed a bank robber who told him how a cashier had soiled herself from fear as he pointed his gun at her.“It was pathetic,” the bank robber said, “seeing her soil herself like that.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Haitian death squad leader Toto Constant, whose ‘approximation of sobbing’ led the author to the conclusion that he could be a psychopath. Photograph: API’ve learned through experience that some people reading this will be feeling a prickle of anxiety now. They’ll be recognising some of these traits in themselves. They’ll be worried that maybe they’re a psychopath. Let me reassure you: as one clinician told me, if you’re worried you may be a psychopath, you aren’t one. Psychopaths never worry about it. What’s there to worry about? It’s a good feeling – maybe the most pleasant-feeling of all the mental health disorders.After I wrote my book on psychopaths, I put the skills I’d learned at the Hare seminar away. I was no clinician. I didn’t want to roam the Earth like some obsessive psychopath spotter, drunk with my new powers. But one day, a year later, I was interviewing a former spy and I noticed something strange. I’d ask him a question and he’d respond with a wholly unconnected, 45-minute, self-aggrandising monologue. I remembered something Hare had told me – that they can make the lousiest interviewees. An interview is an empathetic relationship. The interviewer asks a question and the interviewee tries their best to answer. But what if there’s no empathy?And so I asked him – I’m paraphrasing – “Did you ever hurt anyone in a schoolyard fight?”“Oh yes,” he said. He told me how he’d fill his bag with bricks and hide behind a tree and leap out and hit his enemy over the head with the bag.“I’d hurt them very badly!” he said.“How did that make you feel?” I asked.“Good!” he said. “It was their fault for being bullies.”“And how do you feel now, looking back on it?” I asked.He paused. “Still good,” he said.“So are you the sort of person who doesn’t feel empathy?” I asked.“Ah,” he said. “You’ve pinpointed what a crank I am. I get very upset when dogs I’ve loved have died. But people I’ve hurt?” He screwed up his face. “Pft,” he said.There’s a school of thought that psychopaths don’t really exist, that it’s just a way to pathologise horrible people, to reduce them to a label, to treat them almost like they’re another species. Hare vehemently disputes this. He told me once that when you meet a high-scoring one, it’s stunning. I’ve been around high-scoring ones enough now to know he’s right about that. And if you get them in the right mood, they’ll quite happily reveal themselves.But Will Cornick’s case is a reminder that some people defy checklists. He had been conscientious at school, not “prone to boredom” (an item on the checklist). If he’d tortured animals at 10, nobody has come forward to say so. In fact, his behaviour seemed to change radically after he was diagnosed with diabetes at 12. It dramatically altered his personality and made him depressed that he couldn’t join the army. There’s nothing in the checklist about diabetes. (There are, however, prison studies that claim that “younger diabetics” are “significantly more likely to use force in their offences when compared to non-diabetic offenders”). Cornick may have psychopathic tendencies, but he’s also a human, and humans are forever surprising.The Psychopath Test by Jon Ronson is published by Picador for £8.99. Buy from the Guardian bookshop for £7.49• The headline on this article was amended on 7 November 2014 to more accurately reflect the story.