Police in the Caribbean are investigating possible new sightings of a seven-year-old girl abducted from the US by her father.The deputy police commissioner of the Turks and Caicos islands said officers were investigating two reported sightings of Reigh Storrow Boss, who was snatched by Clark Rockefeller during an access visit in Boston, Massachusetts, on Sunday. He said police had received reports that the pair had been spotted outside a hospital and later outside a supermarket, Sky News reported.The girl's mother, Sandra Boss, 41, made an emotional appeal on US television today for the return of her daughter, nicknamed Snooks.Police believe that Rockefeller, 48, is using a passport with the name Michael Brown and may be attempting to disguise his daughter as a boy.In the  televised appeal, Boss, a London-based financier, tells her husband they can still solve their differences.She says: "Clark, although many things have changed, you will always be Reigh's father and I will always be Reigh's mother."We both love her dearly and have only her best interests and wellbeing in our hearts. I ask you now, please, please bring Snooks back. There has to be a better way for us to solve our differences than this."I also want to thank everyone for your help. And Reigh, honey, I love you and miss you so much. Remember you're always a princess."In a formal appeal, the FBI said Rockefeller used the aliases JP Clark Rockefeller, James Frederick, Clark M Rockefeller III, Clark Mill Rockefeller, Clark Rockerfeller and Michael Brown. Boston police issued an arrest warrant for Rockefeller on charges of custodial kidnapping, assault and battery and assault and battery with a dangerous weapon. Detectives are searching for any documentation, such as a social security number or birth certificate, that would give his true identity. The oldest record they have found is from the early 1990s, when he was listed as living on East 59th Street in Manhattan. A senior Boston police officer said earlier this week: "Nobody knows who this guy is. He is a ghost." The FBI revealed that Reigh's blonde hair could have been cut short so she resembles a boy. Rockefeller was seen at Grand Central station in New York on Sunday night, hours after snatching Reigh. A social worker told police Rockefeller grabbed Reigh, who lives with her mother, put her in a car and fled.It is feared that Rockefeller may have planted false clues that he planned to flee the US in a yacht to throw investigators off his trail. Initially, police believed he may have been trying to get to Bermuda or Peru on a yacht from Long Island. They are not certain he owns a yacht. Rockefeller is not part of the ultra-wealthy dynasty that made billions of dollars with Standard Oil, a spokesman for the family said. He was a director of Boston's exclusive Algonquin Club, but resigned three months ago, the club's manager said. Reigh is 1.2 metres (4ft) tall with blonde hair and blue eyes. She weighs about 23kg (3st 8lbs) and wears glasses. Her father is 1.7 metres (5ft 6ins) tall and stocky, with thinning blonde hair and blue eyes.