The announcement that deaths in prisons will no longer be investigated by the Prison Service is long overdue. However, the news that the prisons ombudsman will now be responsible for the "primary investigation" is bound to create a feeling of disappointment among many prisoners and the more radical penal reform groups.The office of ombudsman was set up nine years ago, after the Strangeways riot in 1990. Lord Woolf's inquiry into that and other disturbances recommended an ombudsman to help ensure that "justice did not end at the prison gate". The present incumbent, Stephen Shaw, has held the post for four years. It is certainly the case that the ombudsman has ruled in favour of prisoners on many important issues. But the problem is that such good works that have been done have been done extremely quietly - which means that only the individual prisoner has felt the benefit, rather than change taking place across the board. The ombudsman is simply not taken seriously by prisoners or prison staff. Any proposals he makes carry far less weight than, for example, those made by the Prisons Inspectorate, which is why this body would have been a better equipped choice to fulfil this new function. The problem is that the ombusman's office is part of the "complaints procedure". This system within a system lets down far too many of its users. Imagine this scenario: a prisoner has been in a jail's segregation unit for several months. During this time, the inmate has complained to the ombudsman (as they have to, if they wish their grievance to go further, say to the high court). The complaint is rejected. The prisoner takes his or her own life. The deceased's family then discover that the people investigating the death are the very people who found nothing wrong with the conditions that their relative clearly could not cope with. Nancy Collins of the Prisoners' Advice Service fears for the success of the appointment. She points to article two of the European convention on human rights - the right to life - which includes the right to a proper investigation into one's death. Half of the ombudsman's staff are ex-Prison Service, says Deborah Coles of Inquest. "The concerns we have focus on just how independent the investigations will be. Will they be using ex-prison staff?" She added: "We need to change the whole culture of such invesigations. The present way is characterised by defensiveness, instead of being an attempt to discover failings in the system." · Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondente.allison@theguardian.com