A woman has admitted causing cruelty to four dogs that went on to kill a 14-year-old girl.Jade Lomas-Anderson died after she was attacked by two bull mastiffs and two Staffordshire bull terriers in Wigan, Greater Manchester, in March.The dogs were owned by Beverley Concannon, in whose former home the teenager died. Concannon, 45, pleaded guilty at Wigan magistrates court on Tuesday to the cruelty offence under the Animal Welfare Act 2006, which could bring a jail sentence.She admitted causing unnecessary suffering to bull mastiffs Buddy and Neo and Staffordshire bull terriers Ty and Sky between 19 July last year and 25 March this year. The charge said she subjected the animals to "an environment that was detrimental to their wellbeing" and she knew or ought to have reasonably known what she had done.An alternative charge of not ensuring the welfare of the dogs between the same dates was dropped, as was a third charge of causing unnecessary suffering on 26 March, when the dogs were shot by police.Concannon bowed her head in the dock throughout the brief hearing. She was given unconditional bail until sentencing on 18 October.Jade was visiting a friend at Concannon's then home in Chaucer Grove, Atherton, when the incident took place. Police were called to the scene following reports that a girl was unconscious and a number of dogs were out of control.This month when announcing the cruelty charges, the Crown Prosecution Service said there was insufficient evidence to bring a charge of manslaughter by gross negligence against Concannon. It said it could not bring any charges under the Dangerous Dogs Act because the four dogs were not banned breeds and were not out of control in a public place.Paul Taylor, prosecuting, told the court that the guilty plea was acceptable to the crown. He said the decision not to charge the defendant with manslaughter had been made at the "highest level" of the CPS.Adjourning proceedings, the district judge Mark Hadfield said: "This lady is of previous good character. The very, very serious nature of the offence means the court needs a report before sentence."He told Concannon: "In due course the court will have to decide the appropriate sentence. I am not able to do that today. I am going to ask the Probation Service to prepare a report to give further information about you and your background. It is very important that you co-operate with the Probation Service between now and the next court date."Concannon confirmed that she understood. The defendant, from Wigan, whose present address was not read out in court, later left the building with the hood of her black jacket covering her face. She was helped into the back of a taxi by her solicitor as photographers gathered, and made no comment.Jade's mother, Shirley, and stepfather, Michael, did not attend the hearing.It is understood that the maximum sentence Concannon could face is six months in jail. She could also be fined and banned from keeping animals.Last week, Jade's parents and Wigan council launched Jade's Campaign, which aims to encourage owners to be responsible and control their dog's behaviour. The couple helped stage an awareness event on the estate where Jade lived as owners were offered advice and practical help such as free microchipping.