The actor Chris Langham today admitted in court he was guilty of looking at child pornography, saying he had only denied the charges to make the point he was not a paedophile. After a dramatic first day of evidence at Maidstone crown court yesterday, during which the 58-year-old star of The Thick of It broke down and recounted being abused as an eight-year-old child, Mr Langham faced cross examination this morning. The award-winning actor and writer denies charges of possessing child pornography and the indecent assault of a girl. The court was told that Mr Langham had sex with a female fan when she was aged 14. He insists he had only one sexual encounter with the woman, now 25, when she was 18. Prosecutor Richard Barraclough QC asked Mr Langham today if he had pleaded not guilty because the charges effectively labelled him a paedophile. "Yes that's correct," the actor replied. "But you are guilty of the images counts?" Mr Barraclough asked. "Yes, that's correct," the actor replied. "So your plea of not guilty is simply some sort of statement that you are not a paedophile?" Mr Barraclough said. "Yes, that's absolutely correct," Mr Langham answered. Mr Langham said yesterday he had looked at child pornography - an experience he described as like "putting my face in a chainsaw" - to better understand abuse committed on himself when he was aged eight, and as research for the BBC comedy Help, which he wrote with comedy actor Paul Whitehouse. "This is all pseudo psychobabble, Mr Langham," Mr Barraclough told him. "You weren't doing it for research but for your own personal motives." The actor responded: "It's to do with resolving a longstanding psychological problem." "I suppose it's very personal to me and something I didn't feel comfortable about, but I was also aware of the fact it was illegal. I was aware of the fact it was illegal and I did it anyway," he said. When asked if he was a sick man, he replied: "I would describe myself as a human being, a work in progress, as we all are." The actor also said he had not believed it was a criminal act to look at material that was "posted openly".During subsequent questioning, Mr Langham said he felt the victims being abused in child pornography were "the only brothers and sisters that I have".Asked why he had saved so many images on his computer, he replied: "I thought if I could become angry enough I might be able to break through the problem I have in accessing this stuff in myself."He admitted taking out a paying subscription to a US website featuring women being raped, but said violence against women did not sexually arouse him. "I'm fascinated by what people do and I'm fascinated by people tying each other up and doing weird sexual things to each other; I think it's interesting," he said. When told the vast majority of images he viewed featured pre-teen girls, Mr Langham denied finding them attractive, saying: "Little girls are not my prominent interest sexually. Little girls are not my interest at all." The actor became upset when Mr Barraclough asked him whether having sexual relations with an underage girl amounted to "letting out the eight-year-old boy" who had himself been abused."Please don't mock," Mr Langham replied, "I'm frightened."Mr Langham, of Golford, near Cranbrook, Kent, denies 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child between September and November 2005. He also denies six counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. The jury was directed by Judge Philip Statman to return not guilty verdicts on four other indecent assault charges. The trial continues.