The prime minister's plans to issue on-the-spot fines to vandals and litterbugs might sound draconian to many British people but the penalties are nothing compared to the canings, jail terms and public shamings offenders face in Singapore.Indeed the tiny south-east Asian island republic that is home to four million people has developed such a reputation over the past 30 years for penalising the smallest offences that it is known to many tourists as "Singapore: the fine city". One of the most popular souvenirs is a T-shirt with the above slogan on the front and pictures of the offences and penalties on the back. These include: selling or importing chewing gum S$1,000 (£370), dropping gum or litter S$1,000, dancing in public S$5,000, skateboarding S$500, smoking in most public places S$1,000, hawking without a licence S$500, vandalism S$5,000 and public speaking without a permit S$2,000. Jaywalking, indecent exposure and "unnatural sex" also risk punishment under the Public Environment Health Act. Many of these penalties are for first offences, unless it is very minor when the miscreant might escape with a warning. Repeat offenders face corrective work orders - which usually involve cleaning up public areas such as the communal areas of blocks of flats or the dirty east coast beaches - imprisonment and even caning. Few people successfully evade punishment as law enforcers are ubiquitous, to say nothing of tale-telling compatriots. Earlier this week the local media reported how a man who snatched a mobile phone was caught by several undercover officers before he had gone a couple of blocks. CM Chue, who runs a website advising foreigners on Singaporean culture, says public shaming is also often part of the punishment. "Repeat offenders get their pictures splashed across the papers in addition to getting threatened with jail," he said. Mr Chue added: "Asians are used to discipline, they respect their leaders and the law a lot more. They accept what they are told to do for the common good." The Singaporean authorities, who start the indoctrination at pre-school, appear to be in no hurry to relax the laws that have turned the city state into such a clean, tidy and obedient society that many foreigners feel it is sterile. Mr Chue laughed when he heard Mr Blair was planning a similar initiative. "He's going to lose his job if he tries to do the same thing in the UK," he said. "People will challenge him and refuse to do what he says. It's just not part of the British culture."