Pressure was mounting last night on the chief constable of the police force which failed to pass on crucial intelligence about allegations of sex crimes against Ian Huntley to step down after he received a humiliating slapdown from the government. Amid continuing recriminations over the vetting errors that allowed Huntley to get the job of caretaker at Soham village college, David Westwood, the chief constable of Humberside, was looking increasingly isolated after claiming his force had deleted information about Huntley's alleged crimes because the Data Protection Act required it to do so. Not one of 15 other forces contacted by the Guardian said they had a similar policy, and the man who devised police guidelines on data protection also told the Guardian the force had got it wrong. Huntley was sentenced to life on Wednesday after being convicted of the murders of 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. After his conviction it was disclosed that he had slipped through a series of security checks that should have shown he was suspected of nine sex crimes, many involving under-age girls. In the Commons, the Home Office minister Hazel Blears insisted that the act did not "inhibit" forces from collecting and using intelligence data. "What the Data Protection Act provides is that information should not be kept for any longer than is necessary," she said. "That requires forces to exercise a degree of judgment and professionalism in how they use the data and how it is dealt with in their system." Ms Blears added that in some circumstances data should be retained, including "certainly any kind of offence where there are sexual motives involved, or violence". John Burrow, who was chairman of a senior police officers' working group on data protection which drew up the 1995 code of practice in force when Huntley was accused of a string of sex offences, said he had been surprised when he heard that Humberside had apparently been destroying information about the killer within a month of the allegations being made. "I think it is obvious that they misread the Data Protection Act," he said. Mr Burrow, a former Essex chief constable, added: "I would have thought that someone being accused of rape was relevant to the police in the longer term. In this case Humberside police exercised their judgment and quite frankly I think they got it wrong." Guidelines from the Association of Chief Police Officers state that information about alleged sex crimes can be kept by forces even if someone has not been convicted. Mr Westwood's explanation of why his force deleted the information astonished the Information Commissioner's Office, which enforces the Data Protection Act. David Smith, assistant information commissioner, said: "It appears that serious blunders have been made and those are policing blunders, not data protection blunders." Before Huntley got a job as caretaker at Soham village college, where Holly and Jessica were pupils, he was vetted by Cambridgeshire police. The sex crime allegations were missed because Humberside had deleted the information. David Hart, leader of the National Association of Head Teachers, said Mr Westwood should resign: "It's one thing to make a series of mistakes and own up and apologise, it's another to cover up why mistakes were made by offering spurious excuses." Three inquiries are under way, one into the police, another into the social services, and an independent inquiry set up by the government into how Huntley got the job. Ms Blears also told the Commons that the police were too slow to log convictions on the police national computer, saying a year-long study was "not encouraging". A leaked report by the Inspectorate of Constabulary showed that some convictions were not entered for two months, when they should be entered within seven days. When data can be keptThe Association of Chief Police Officers' code of practice for data protection says: "In cases where a sexual offence is alleged but the subject is acquitted or the case is discontinued because of a lack of corroboration or allegation of consent by the victim, the details may be retained for a period of five years upon the authorisation of an officer not below the rank of superintendent and will be reviewed again at the end of the retention period." In such cases, retention can be authorised if the following criteria are met: · The circumstances of the case would give cause for concern if the subject were to apply for employment for a post involving substantial access to vulnerable persons · The facts of the case show that the involvement of the subject in an unlawful act is such that the information can be graded A1 · The decision to retain the information can be defended on public interest grounds