In 2003, when I applied to be this paper's prison correspondent, the selection process included writing a 500-word essay. For my subject, I chose enforced cell-sharing in prisons. I wrote that sharing a confined space with a stranger was the worst aspect of life inside our troubled jails. I asked the reader to imagine sharing a cell with an addict in the throes of withdrawal; being forced to watch diarrhoea and vomit fall from the stranger, hear his moans and the rattle of his bed, shaking from his trembling. On a lesser level, the stranger would fart, belch or snore; or insist on playing rap music throughout the long locked hours.The nightmare scenario of my piece came via reports of two deaths in custody. In one, a racist prisoner bludgeoned his Asian cellmate to death with a table leg; in the other a psychopath killed his cellmate and then began to eat him. The former victim was Zahid Mubarek, murdered in Feltham young offender institution in 2000. The public inquiry that followed his death castigated staff at Feltham for putting Robert Stewart, who had been diagnosed with a deep-seated personality disorder, in the same cell as a young Asian boy.Following the inquiry, the prison service introduced a cell-sharing risk assessment programme (CSRA), designed to prevent further tragic mismatching of prisoners. Last month, the verdict from a coroner's jury provided stark evidence that, three years after CSRA was introduced, prisoners were still being made to share cells with inmates who were a danger to them.In September 2003, Anthony Hesketh was forced to share a cell with Clement McNally, who was serving a life sentence for stabbing a friend to death. McNally was known to have a personality disorder and was prone to uncontrollable outbursts. He had daubed the walls of his cell with satanic symbols and told other prisoners that he was "Satan's hands and eyes". A prisoner told the jury that "everyone could see that McNally was losing his mind" and alleged that officers "laughed off" suggestions that he had serious mental health issues. The jury found that staff failed to carry out a CSRA on McNally before putting him in a cell with Hesketh, who was garrotted by his killer.A year after that killing, another prisoner, Shahid Aziz, was beaten and stabbed to death by his cellmate, Peter McCann, at Leeds prison. McCann had a history of violent attacks on fellow prisoners. The day before the killing, a probation officer phoned the prison warning that McCann was a threat to prisoners. Her warning was ignored and, in 2007, an inquest jury heard that the CSRA process was confined to staff asking McCann if he was dangerous. McCann said he was not.In April this year, the West Yorkshire coroner sent a letter to the director general of the prison service, reminding him of the systematic failings that were revealed at Aziz's inquest. The coroner said he believed that the inadequacies in CSRA had not been addressed. He asked the director general to "respond to all my recommendations and not just provide a set-piece policy statement". Strong words, but will they be heeded? Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest, believes that lack of accountability means these lessons are ignored.There have been 14 prison homicides since Zahid Mubarek died, the majority occurring in local prisons, which receive prisoners from courts. The turnover here is so high – and the regimes so chaotic – that risk assessment is well nigh impossible. Couple that with a penal system that is increasingly becoming a ghastly overspill for a depleted residential mental health estate and it is clear that further prison killings are inevitable. Capital punishment was abolished in 1965; it is an abomination that prisoners are being sent from courts to suffer dreadful and preventable deaths.