The head of the new body which will amalgamate the prison and probation services today pledged to resign if he did not reduce reoffending by 10%.Martin Narey, chief executive of the National Offenders Management Service (Noms), which will begin bringing together the prison and probation services from next month, vowed to quit if the high number of repeat offenders did not drop. He said that Noms, which is expected to start operating in 2009, would prevent offenders from falling through the gaps between the two services, which contributed to high rates of reoffending.Addressing the Association of Chief Police Officers' annual conference in Birmingham, Mr Narey said he had promised the home secretary, David Blunkett, that he would reduce reoffending by 10%.He said: "If we can reduce reoffending by 10%, you will see a real impact in what happens on the streets. The home secretary said that was fine and I said if I did not, I will go."His vow came the day after the National Association of Probation Officers (Napo) condemned the establishment of Noms at a rally in London, claiming it would lead to redundancies and privatisation.Rejecting the association's claims, Mr Narey told the conference that Noms was "the most important development in my time in the criminal justice system" because criminals were currently falling between the gaps in the prison and probation services.Despite having £900m more to invest in "correction" programmes than in 1997, Mr Narey admitted he could show "barely a dent" in the prevention of reoffending. According to the latest Home Office data for 1999, 55.3% of ex-convicts were sent back to prison, while 44.3% of those serving community-based sentences committed crimes again. Mr Narey said: "We really have a revolving door system in the prison service, which has got to change."He added that there had been a huge rise in the number of jail terms handed out over the past 10 years, with little effect on reducing reoffending. The chances of a defendant receiving a prison sentence from a magistrate had tripled from 6% in 1994 to the current figure of 17%, Mr Narey added. He said this situation would be countered with the appointment of national offender managers who would be responsible for reducing reoffending through a range of community-based punishments such as electronic tagging, drug-testing and training orders. Speaking outside the conference, Mr Narey said it was "ludicrous" for Napo to suggest the creation of Noms will lead to redundancies. He said: "We have got three universities right now in this country training new probation officers as fast as they can, and we will be giving the probation service in the region of £22m this year to bring on these new recruits." Mr Narey added that privatisation was "not on the agenda". But he warned that the public sector had "to show it can do the job". "There is no God-given right for the public sector to retain work if it can be done elsewhere," he said.Napo's assistant general secretary, Harry Fletcher, claimed Mr Narey would fail to hit his target when Noms started operating. He said: "It is a laudable claim for him to make, but there are too many factors beyond the control of probation, such as employment, poverty and parenting, for him to make that claim. "We stand by our original concerns that Martin Narey's proposals are overly bureaucratic and will drain resources from the front line. He has been silent on the detail of how all this will work."