A paedophile who acted as a "librarian" for a global internet child abuse ring was handed an indefinite jail term today after one of the biggest undercover police investigations into online child abuse.Philip Thompson, 27, collected nearly 250,000 indecent pictures of children as part of a global ring that reached 33 countries, including the UK, the US, Australia and Canada, Teesside crown court heard. More than 3,000 of the images found on Thompson's computers were in the worst category of child abuse images.Thompson, who was unemployed and lived with his mother, admitted 27 charges today, including 16 counts of making indecent photographs of children, seven of distributing indecent photographs of children and one count of causing or inciting a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity. Judge Michael Taylor said he posed a very "significant risk" to the public and therefore he would be imposing an indeterminate prison sentence for public protection. "You have shown that you are a very dangerous individual indeed. I consider that you pose a very significant risk to the public and you are a dangerous offender."Thompson was told he would have to serve a minimum jail term of three years and nine months but the judge warned it may be much longer. Thompson will also be placed on the sex offenders' register for life. During the investigation, which began in May 2007, police identified 360 suspects across the world and saved 15 children from abuse. Prosecutor Harry Hadfield told the court police raided Thompson's home in February this year and recovered two desktop computers and a laptop. "Forensic analysis by computer experts established that the defendant had 241,000 indecent photographs of children, being one of the largest seizures of indecent photographs in the UK," he said.Thompson was the moderator for an online forum used by paedophiles across the world to trade in child pornography, the court heard. "The defendant's role was to police the website, which gave him the opportunity to transfer these images to his computer. The evidence recovered from his computer showed he had amassed a vast collection of indecent photographs of children. It appeared the defendant kept some of the most serious images to use as trading chips." Thompson's barrister, Brian Russell, said his client had cooperated fully with the police during their investigation. "This is really a young man who has fallen into that stereotype of a rather sad and lonely teenager who spends too much time in a darkened room in front of a computer screen," Russell said. "He has not had much life experience to get himself mature." Thompson used his computer skills to moderate an invitation-only website featuring borderline images of children. Once users had signed up, they would be offered access to more secretive online environments where images and information about vulnerable children were exchanged.Jim Gamble, chief executive of the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre, said: "This website, while appearing to operate on the margins of legality, was clearly a front for the sinister, sexual abuse of children and an image trading ground for paedophiles. There is a simple message for those individuals like Thompson, who think they can go to this website — or indeed any space on the internet — and discuss their sexual interest in children and share images. You leave a digital footprint. We will track you down and hold you to account."