Probation officers have been warned that unless they meet government targets the Home Office "will simply get someone else" to do the job, according to a leaked internal management paper passed to the Guardian.London probation managers have told staff that they will face competition next April from private companies and voluntary organisations to carry out some work with offenders.The London Probation Board internal paper, Preparing for Competition, discloses that managers are to drive through a programme this autumn of naming and shaming the worst performing units while rewarding the best.A hit-team referred to in the paper as a small contingency unit is to be set up to tackle the worst performing units in the London service. "Tolerance of mediocrity and the acceptance of failure [must] become things of the past. Doing well is what we come to expect. It is not embarrassing or counter cultural to celebrate success. All staff must come to believe that there are consequences for failure to deliver."The decision by the London probation service to drive through a programme to improve performance in the face of the threat of privatisation is believed to mirror simi lar exercises in the north-west and the south-west of England.The London Probation Board paper says that in the short term the areas most likely to be subject to competition are programmes to tackle offending behaviour, approved premises used by the probation service, and community punishments."Current performance regarding these areas of work is variable. In the medium term all aspects of our work could become contestable. The single biggest driver in the decision to allow others to compete for the work we do is likely to be that we fail to deliver to expectations."The introduction of an element of market testing has come with the establishment of the National Offender Management Service (Noms) from next month under which the senior hierarchies of the prison and probation services will be merged. It describes its programme of introducing competition to the prison and probation services as "contestability".Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation union, said the scheme was impractical nonsense and was an attempt to frighten probation staff in advance of contestability."London probation is short of resources," he said. "Reports are not being written and there are scores of unfilled vacancies. What is being asked is simply impractical."More than 1,000 probation officers are expected to protest today at Westminster over Noms and a separate probation service. More than 40 MPs from all parties have backed a Commons early day motion warning that the "process of contestability" should not be used as a threat to staff or voluntary sector providers.· The new Home Office headquarters in London is to open next January with space for 3,500 civil servants. But MPs on the Commons public accounts committee discovered that official forecasting was so poor that the Home Office needs space for 5,000.