The trial of two Thai fishermen who allegedly raped and killed the British backpacker Katherine Horton will be speeded up in an attempt to restore Thailand's damaged reputation, police said today.Authorities hope the trial will begin next week after they accelerated bureaucratic procedures that normally take a few months."In this case, we appeal [to the court] to expedite the trial because it involves the country's reputation," Major General Asawin Khawanmuang, the deputy chief of the Royal Thai police's investigation department, said. He said police planned to file the case against the fishermen on Friday. The two men are alleged to have raped and murdered Katherine, a 21-year-old student from Wales, as she holidayed on the island of Koh Samui. The pair, who on Monday were charged with killing Ms Horton, briefly appeared at a court hearing in Suritani on the Thai mainland today, reports said. During the hearing, Bualoi Posit, 23, and 24-year-old Wichai Somkhaoyai signed their names and were taken to Suritani provincial prison, the BBC's website reported. A Foreign Office spokeswoman said yesterday: "Under Thai law, the prosecution have 84 days from the point of arrest to get their case together for the trial to begin." Detectives working on the case came under intense pressure from the country's prime minister, Thaksin Shinawatra, to catch the killers. Yesterday, Mr Shinawatra called for the fishermen to be executed if found guilty. Police claim Mr Bualoi and Mr Wichai confessed to killing Ms Horton, of Thornhill, Cardiff, on the evening of New Year's Day. Mr Bualoi also admitted raping Ms Horton. Yesterday, Major General Suthan Chayanon said Mr Wichai, who initially denied rape, had later acknowledged his guilt.Forensic experts have allegedly matched DNA from the two men with DNA found on Ms Horton.The police say the two fishermen told them they had decided to rape someone while drinking whisky and watching pornographic films on their fishing boat off Lamai beach.They then reportedly swam ashore to the beach at around 9.40pm, when the first woman they saw was Ms Horton, who was walking along the sand and talking to her mother, Elizabeth, on her mobile phone. The men allegedly beat her with a wooden pole, raped her and dumped her in the sea before swimming back to their boat, where they then boasted to crewmates.