A man died today and another was wounded in a drive-by shooting outside a fitness centre in Hertfordshire, police said.A van pulled up outside the Physical Limit Health and Fitness Club on Brewery Road in the town centre of Hoddesdon at 9.20am, police said. Two suspects in the van opened fire with an automatic weapon on the victim and his companion, police and witnesses said.Hertfordshire police said the second man sustained superficial injuries in the shooting. Officers found what they believe to be the getaway vehicle, a burned out white van, in the Lampitts area not far from the scene of the shooting. A police spokeswoman said an investigation had been launched. Both victims are believed to be white males. It was too early in the investigation to speculate about a motive for the shooting, police added.A witness, whose house backed on to the scene of the shooting, told Sky News: "It's a kind of downhill slope. It looked like they came down the hill on the other side of the road, pulled up close, and opened up through the car. "It looked like shots were fired through the car itself. It looked like him [the victim] and a friend were coming out of a health centre and both were injured. "The first victim was taken away immediately. The second was given an IV [intravenous] and taken away on a stretcher. He had a wound on his back and his leg but he was running around a lot so I think it was more shrapnel. "I didn't hear any cars squealing and there's no marks down there. We were out within seconds and they were gone," the witness said. Shop owner Dave Holtby, whose business is opposite the scene of the shooting, told Sky News: "We heard several shots at about 9.20 this morning. It's not something you expect on your doorstep at any time of day, especially in a quiet town like Hoddesdon. "It sounded like an automatic weapon, it was very repetitious. It [the scene] is a couple of metres from the high street. It could be quite a busy road at times," Mr Holtby said.Hoddesdon is a peaceful, law-abiding town, a police spokesman told Sky News, and an incident such as this is very unusual.