More than 40 armed police and technicians were involved in the final pursuit of Derrick Bird as he killed 10 people in the space of hour.Details of the police operation that culminated in the discovery of the taxi driver's body in the foothills of the Lake District were disclosed today by Cumbria's chief constable, Craig Mackey, in part to answer local criticism that officers had been slow to track down Bird.The armed response teams, who had been authorised to kill, were joined by firearms officers from the Civil Nuclear constabulary at nearby Sellafield. Mackey said that officers were on the scene within minutes, but that "at no stage did any officer have a chance to end this any sooner" and that due to Bird's local knowledge of back roads none were able to catch up with him before he took his own life.Although Cumbria is one of the smallest police forces with one of the largest geographical areas to cover, there was a large number of armed officers on hand partly due to the fact that it coincided with the Appleby horse fair, in the east of the county, which has in the past required close surveillance.Once the alarm was raised, an extra 10 armed officers were made ready for deployment from Northumbria, Lancashire and North Yorkshire police forces. RAF helicopters were drafted in for a "massive land and air search".Mackey described Bird's rampage as taking place in three phases. It began with Bird killing his twin brother, David, in the early hours of Wednesday morning, followed later by the shooting of Kevin Commons, the family's solicitor, who was found after police received a call at 10.20am reporting shots in Frizington. Armed officers attended and found Commons dead in the driveway of his house.The second phase, between 10.30am and 11.35am, was the bloodiest. It was during this time that Bird "went on to kill 10 other innocent people", Mackey said. "Crucially, in this period Bird was firing shots out of his vehicle, moving from place to place, and was not in any one area for a significant length of time," Mackey said. "Our over-arching focus during this period was protecting the public of Cumbria and locating Bird."At 10.33am, police received a second call, about shots in Duke Street, Whitehaven, where Darren Rewcastle, a taxi driver, was shot dead by Bird and another man, Don Reed, injured. "As soon as the call came into us, every armed officer in the county was deployed to the area from across the force," Mackey said. "Forty-two armed officers from Cumbria were deployed in this operation. Our officers were on the scene within minutes … At no stage did any police officer have a chance to end this sooner."This has been the most tragic and complex operation I have been involved in my 25 years as a police officer," the chief constable added."Twelve innocent people – mothers, fathers, partners and friends – were brutally murdered as they went about their daily lives, and I am 100% committed to getting to the bottom of this investigation and finding out why."Eleven other people were wounded, seven of whom are still in hospital.The force's deputy chief constable, Stuart Hyde, later confirmed that Bird's mobile phone signal had been tracked as he sped across the Cumbrian countryside in the closing sequence of the hunt.He confirmed that tracking mobile phone signals of suspects was a standard police technique.Asked whether there had been any attempt to contact Bird via his taxi radio, Hyde said he was not aware of any conversation taking place. "[The armed officers] had full powers to engage in this incident if they had an opportunity. Their role and responsibility was to save lives," he said.Although the pursuing officers were "pretty close" at the end, they did not catch sight of him before finding his body in the wooded hills above the hamlet of Boot, Hyde said. "The terrain is old woodland. They would have been going up against someone armed with a very accurate .22 weapon with a telescope on it."Hyde said the force had been in conversation with the Independent Police Complaints Commission and may refer itself voluntarily for scrutiny, given the magnitude of the incident. "This is a major critical incident. It is only right the community and public understand we have done everything we should have and could have done," he added.Police are also investigating claims that Bird was a member of unofficial gun clubs which have been set up in west Cumbria. Some of the clubs have been described by one local gun enthusiast as "blokes getting together in a wood with rifles". A police spokeswoman said: "Police are investigating all leads surrounding Derrick Bird, including issues around his firearms."