The first attempt in the British courts to mount a prosecution for "psychological manslaughter" failed today after the court of appeal threw out a case against a husband accused of causing his wife's suicide by years of abuse.The Crown Prosecution Service launched the unique prosecution against Harcharran Dhaliwal, who was accused of the manslaughter of his wife Gurjit and inflicting grievous bodily harm on her. The 45-year-old mother of two sons was found hanged in February 2005 at an outhouse behind the family home in Southall, west London, with a fresh wound on her forehead. She left behind a diary cataloguing incidents of violence and psychological abuse. Her husband admitted causing the wound by hitting her when wearing a bangle on his arm. But defence lawyers won a ruling in March from an Old Bailey judge that Mr Dhaliwal could not be held criminally liable for his wife's death and the case could not go ahead.The appeal court's decision yesterday to uphold that ruling was condemned by Mrs Dhaliwal's brother Nav Jagpal and the national domestic violence charity Refuge. Mr Jagpal said: "My sister experienced years of psychological abuse and domestic violence. I witnessed the results of this and amongst other things her handwritten journals bear witness to this abuse. "I am sickened to learn that English law is unable to prosecute a man for perpetrating psychological manslaughter. How can there be so much evidence and yet no punishment for taking my sister's life?"Sandra Horley, Refuge's chief executive, said the ruling "flies in the face of natural justice."She added: "The law is archaic and has not kept up with medical science. It was not structured to deal with cases where a physical assault results in the victim taking his or her own life. The court had to rely on an Act of 1861, before psychiatry was even born, and when the link between physical assault and mental trauma was not fully appreciated. "Refuge is calling for the Law Commission to review urgently the whole area of psychological manslaughter as part of its current Homicide Review."The appeal court judges said that causing a recognised psychiatric illness by abuse could amount to bodily harm and if it caused a suicide it could come within the ambit of manslaughter. But while psychiatrists and psychologists told prosecutors they believed that the abuse had triggered Mrs Dhaliwal's decision to take her own life, there was insufficient evidence for a jury to conclude that she suffered from a recognised psychiatric illness. "The CPS is disappointed with this decision as are the victim's family who I know have been very keen to find justice for her," said Nazir Afzal, sector director for CPS London. "The decision to bring a prosecution was not taken lightly. We desperately wanted the jury to hear about the life of Gurjit and what she is alleged to have suffered at the hands of her husband, Harcharran. Regrettably that won't happen now."By all accounts she was a bubbly, hard working and loving mother. After her death a journal was discovered which covered the last few months of her life. It alleged that she was the victim of substantial physical and emotional abuse allegedly at the hands of the defendant."Additionally, members of her family provided evidence of what she is alleged to have said about her alleged abuse and photographs of what she appeared to have suffered. "The evidence suggested that Gurjit chose to remain in an alleged abusive relationship because of the dishonour it would bring her and her family if she left."He said the CPS had brought the groundbreaking prosecution to establish the principle, which the appeal court accepted, "that if you harm your partner and cause them physical and mental harm and subsequently drive them to suicide, then you can be guilty of manslaughter."By accepting this principle the message goes out to perpetrators of this type of violence: if you raise your hand in anger, remember the law gives us the power to prosecute."