Historically, Britain's police were organised locally. Central government kept its distance. Yet it is important not to oversimplify. For decades, Whitehall has had a guiding hand on budgets, standards, coordination and senior appointments. And for good reasons. The days have gone when organising the watch was the job of local aldermen alone. As crime patterns have changed, so policing has become national and international, as well as local. Police officers have lifted their own professional horizons too. And central government has been forced to take ownership of policing as law and order rises as a public concern.Under Labour since 1997, this process has accelerated much faster than at any other time in the past half-century. Partly this is because issues like drugs and guns are no respecters of police boundaries. Partly, it is because Gordon Brown's regime of value-for-money targets means the Treasury now insists on knowing what is going on in every police station. And partly it is because, in David Blunkett, Labour has a home secretary who has no qualms about overturning the old system to wrest control of the politics of law and order from the Conservatives.At Blackpool yesterday, the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, promised a radical counter-revolution against this creeping centralisation. He believes neighbourhood policing, and the proverbial bobby on the beat, are the effective way to respond to local anxieties. He believes neighbourhood policing and Home Office control are chalk and cheese. So he proposes to devolve most policing issues to newly elected local police authorities, with the independence of chief constables enshrined in statute. It would be one of the most far-reaching cuts in central government power in England and Wales for decades. There is much good in Mr Letwin's proposals. Policing is better done at local level than by a national gendarmerie. Local police accountability, historically always weak, should be strengthened. If police officers are drowning in a sea of Brown and Blunkett-derived forms rather than doing the policing local communities expect, then that is madness. But local control of policing is not a panacea. Centralisation occurred for good as well as bad reasons, including local corruption and the fact that many police (and some chief constables) are often not very good at policing. Local control does not automatically mean more bobbies on the beat. If Mr Letwin ever becomes Mr Blunkett's successor, he will find the pressure to intervene more difficult to resist than he now pretends.