The ex-wife of Sion Jenkins yesterday alleged her former husband slapped her in the face and flew into rages in an account of their relationship and the days leading to the murder of foster daughter, Billie-Jo.Lois Jenkins said in the Mail on Sunday that nine years of trials and retrials since the 13-year-old was battered to death with a metal tent peg on the patio of their home in Hastings had been "a nightmare" and that "the uncertainty remains" for her and her four daughters after Mr Jenkins was formally cleared of murder last week.In another Sunday newspaper, Mr Jenkins, 48, who was cleared last week by the trial judge after a second retrial ended with a hung jury, offered his account of the events surrounding the death of Billie-Jo and his fight to clear his name.Mr Jenkins wrote his account- published yesterday in the Sunday Telegraph- four years ago, while he was in jail. The former deputy headteacher described how he returned from buying some white spirit "to find Billie-Jo lying in a pool of blood, her skull cracked open. From that moment, my life changed irreversibly".Lawyers for Mr Jenkins are now preparing to sue the Home Office for up to £300,000 in compensation to recoup earnings lost during six years in prison after he was initially found guilty in 1997 of murdering Billie-Jo. His conviction was quashed at his second appeal in 2004 after scientists offered new evidence that blood spots found on his clothes could have been exhaled from Billie-Jo's nose.In all three trials, evidence including Mrs Jenkins's allegations that he was violent towards her and their children was ruled inadmissible.Mrs Jenkins described the early years of their marriage as "quite traumatic because Sion would suddenly become aggressive" and alleged he slapped her in the face "on a few occasions".According to her account, her husband picked up the teachings of evangelical US writer Robert L Oliver who argued that the bible recommended children should be physically punished. In the months before Billie-Jo's murder, Mrs Jenkins said she confided in her mother about what she called her husband's "increasingly volatile" behaviour. "I was nervous at home and ... feared for my own safety," she said.After Billie-Jo was murdered, Mrs Jenkins said her husband "seemed strangely cold and distant. His eyes were as grey as slate with pinpoint pupils. He tried to hug me but it was icy and completely without feeling. He, too, was in shock".She said she now had little memory of Mr Jenkins during the hours after Billie-Jo was discovered dead. "He offered no comfort. I felt let down and faintly embarrassed. I wondered if our friends had noticed his detachment."Mrs Jenkins said she first suspected her husband might have murdered Billie-Jo, the night after they faced the press together and appealed for information.