Police were last night searching for a lone gunman who walked into a Glasgow police station and shot an officer at its front desk.PC John Cunningham, 53, remained in a critical but stable condition in hospital after being hit by a bullet in his torso late on Sunday night. He was manning the desk at Shettleston station with two other officers when the gunman opened fire. After the shooting the gunman dropped his gun on the counter and ran off. PC Cunningham's colleagues gave him first aid before he was taken by ambulance to hospital. Strathclyde police were yesterday attempting to establish a motive for the shooting. Assistant chief constable Ricky Gray said: "There is no known motive at this time. "This is a despicable incident involving a man who has 31 years of service." PC Cunningham is married with two daughters. His family were understood to be at his side yesterday at Glasgow Royal infirmary.Investigating officers said the man who shot PC Cunningham at 11.45pm on Sunday was in his early 20s, had short or close-cropped hair, was of slim build and was wearing a camouflage jacket. There were no police CCTV cameras focusing on the area where PC Cunningham was shot, but officers were yesterday examining footage from Glasgow city council cameras as they tried to trace the gunman. Forensic tests were also being carried out on the gun. PC Cunningham, who was shot in his right hand side, was not wearing any protective clothing. Martha Carroll, 62, who lives in a flat next door to the police station, said she heard a loud bang when the policeman was shot. She told the BBC: "I thought there had maybe been a car accident so I jumped up and looked out of the window. I saw a young police officer run out into the middle of the road and stop the cars. I think it's absolutely appalling." Mr Gray said: "We have never had a shooting like this in the force area to my knowledge, in my service." Yesterday morning teams of armed police officers surrounded a tenement building around 500 metres from the police station. Armed officers then moved in on a flat and took two men and two women to a local police station for questioning. The four were later released. Mr Gray said the investigation remained "very much ongoing". Shettleston police station was closed yesterday as officers searched for evidence. Hugh Henry, the Scottish deputy justice minister, said: "This is an appalling act of violence and our thoughts are with Constable Cunningham and his family. Gun crime is alarming at any time but even more so when directed at a police officer in the course of duty."Norrie Flowers, chairman of the Scottish Police Federation, said the shooting highlighted the dangers police officers faced. But he said it was important that police stations remained easily accessible to the public.