Ministers were accused today of failing to get to grips with antisocial behaviour after plans were revealed to give 40 areas with the worst problems extra financial help.The government's "respect coordinator", Louise Casey, said town halls in England and Wales would have to agree to crack down on yobbish behaviour in exchange for extra resources from the Home Office.Ms Casey said the 40 areas had been selected on a range of criteria, such as deprivation and high levels of antisocial behaviour but also on truancy, exclusion from school and other factors."We approached these local authorities and asked if they wanted to become 'respect areas' and now they have signed up for it. They have to convince us that they will do it," Ms Casey said.The 40 local authority areas, which have yet to be named, would be expected to use the full range of powers available to them to combat the problem, she said.A Home Office spokeswoman said the chosen local authorities would be expected to bid for cash to fund particular measures to combat antisocial behaviour."All this money wil be announced in January. It will depend on the specific needs of an area," the spokeswoman said.The Conservatives dismissed plans for "respect areas" as a "gimmick" and an admission of government failure.Recent figures showed 47% of antisocial behaviour orders were breached.The Conservative shadow home affairs spokesman, David Davies, said practical measures, such as more visible policing, were needed to deal with antisocial behaviour."The fact the government are resorting to having to bribe local authorities to sign up to their gimmicks betrays just how unsuccessful they have been. However, the government should ditch the gimmick-led approach and start respecting the public's intelligence."The Liberal Democrat deputy leader, Vincent Cable, said the government had failed to match words with action."Primary responsibility for tackling antisocial behaviour should be with the police and not local authorities," he said. "This is an issue where the government has been particularly tough-talking, yet they have not backed up their rhetoric with effective action."Ms Casey admitted there was a need for a "wider debate"on how to deal with young people who persistently breach Asbos, the controversial measure introduced by Labour to deal with yobs.She defended the high rate of breached Asbos. "I'm not surprised by the breach rates, when you are dealing with such criminal groups of people. The figures very clearly show that kids who are breaching Asbos are breaching everything else as well."It is not the failure of the Asbo, it is the failure of getting the offending behaviour of that young person under control. That is a wider debate for the Home Office to have. This small minority who are in the 'super-criminal' groups are breaching everything under the sun." Moves were under way to make it easier for local people to raise their concerns about antisocial behaviour. One such move is the introduction of "street meetings" for local residents, where key police and council figures will be available in shopping areas and other public locations to hear people's concerns. Efforts were also being made to improve parenting. Last month, the home secretary, John Reid, announced £4m was to be spent on "supernannies" across England to give parenting advice to families with problems.Parenting experts will be employed by 77 local councils to help families in parenting classes or on a one-to-one basis. Ms Casey said she hoped many of the "supernannies" would be operating by the end of March.It is thought the 40 worst areas targeted under the new initiative will largely come from these local authority areas.