The lawyer representing the man accused of murdering the British backpacker Peter Falconio today suggested his client could have been framed.Grant Algie, summing up the defence case at Bradley Murdoch's murder trial in Darwin, Australia, accused British forensic experts of talking to the Australian jury as though they were "colonials".He also questioned whether Mr Falconio, from Huddersfield, was really dead. His body has never been found.Mr Algie told the jury that "from time to time people disappear themselves for reasons best known to them", and suggested investigating officers had manipulated the evidence to make the case against his client appear stronger than it was.Mr Murdoch, 47, of Broome, Western Australia, denies murdering Mr Falconio, who was 28, and abducting and assaulting his girlfriend, Joanne Lees, after flagging down the couple's orange camper van on a remote stretch of Outback highway in July 2001.Ms Lees, now 32 and of Brighton, managed to escape and hide in the bush for more than five hours before being rescued.Mr Algie said the traces of his client's DNA found on the ties used to bind Ms Lees' hands when she claims she was in the back of his four-wheel drive vehicle were not reliable evidence against him.He asked whether the ties could have been "contaminated intentionally", and attacked the DNA tests used by Dr Jonathan Whitaker, of the UK Forensic Science Service, to claim the DNA on the handcuffs was 100 million times more likely to have come from Mr Murdoch than anybody else.Dr Whitaker insisted, under cross-examination, that he was the "expert". Mr Algie told the jury: "It may be that you take the view [that] experts telling us colonials that that's the way it is because they say it is, is unsatisfactory."The lawyer cited the notorious case of the disappearance of baby Azaria Chamberlain near Ayers Rock in August 1980. Her mother, Lindy, was jailed for murder, but later had her conviction quashed."Some 20-odd years ago up here in the supreme court in Darwin, experts gave evidence that it was foetal blood in the inside of a car that led to a conviction of murder, no doubt because they were the experts and you should believe them - but they were wrong," he told the jury.Mr Algie also asked the jury to consider whether police had framed Mr Murdoch and planted evidence to make the case stronger. "Could it be to attempt, in the vernacular, a set-up, a fit-up? Would the police do that? Do you think that's possible?" he asked."It might depend on whether the police, or whoever might have done this, thought they were doing anything wrong, in the moral sense, you know."If Murdoch's guilty, if he did it, there's no harm done [...] Are police prepared, do you think, to bend the rules, fabricate a little bit, to lie a bit, if there's no harm done?"He also suggested that the lid to a lip balm used by Ms Lees to try and ease the ties off her wrists could have been planted by police officers."No harm done. Just confirming their investigation. Not the crime of the century, just making everything fit in neatly," he told the jury. "It's yet another example of police manipulating the evidence to perhaps better the case, to make it look a little better, with no harm done."The trial was adjourned until tomorrow, and the jury is expected to retire to consider its verdict early next week.Mr Algie told jurors they should have serious concerns about returning a murder verdict when there was no body. He said he did not accept, as the prosecution alleged, that Mr Murdoch would have driven away with Mr Falconio's body after shooting him dead."Why would you possibly pick up a dead body, complete with blood presumably, and put it in your car?" he asked. "You would have to be nuts. There's absolutely no rational explanation."There is no reason, I would suggest, that the bad guy would take the body unless he was not dead, but that's a matter for you."