When a keen young customs officer was talent-spotted in 1996 doing routine jobs at Teesport docks, and offered a posting to the elite national investigation service to work on big undercover drugs cases, he hoped it would be the making of his career. But instead it was to cost him his life. Amjad Bashir hanged himself - the human price of the tide of scandal that is engulfing customs and excise. According to colleagues, he feared he was about to be made a fall guy in one of the major police inquiries the NIS now faces. His mistake dated back five years when he sat in a van in Leeds while his companion handed over a carrier bag containing nearly 2kg of heroin to three customers from Bradford. Mr Bashir's companion was a Pakistani known on customs books as PI Mark. PI stands for "participating informant" and Mark was one of the agency's star operators. He had collected more than £500,000 in rewards over the years and delivered a large number of "bodies". The heroin Mark and Mr Bashir handed over belonged to customs. It was part of a 35kg consignment sitting in their warehouse. Customs had arranged for it to be shipped in from Pakistan in what they called a "controlled delivery". The official version was later to be that the three customers had demanded a "sample" to test. When they eventually took delivery of the full load of heroin, they were arrested in what the NIS termed Operation Serin and presented as a triumph in taking drugs off the streets. According to the accused, what actually happened was that Mark told them he needed a £40,000 deposit before being able to obtain the cheap heroin. He gave his would-be customers the drugs to sell to raise the money. Both the heroin and the cash later vanished. West Midlands police began an inquiry in 1998 into all the cases run by one of Mr Bashir 's superiors, who was suspended. Later two drug liaison officers based in Pakistan were suspended too. Mr Bashir had been treated as a witness at first. He was a relatively junior executive officer. But last year he too was interrogated and suspended. Police sources accept he was not a key suspect, but a pawn. Colleagues suspect it was hoped he might break under pressure. But he did not. Colleagues say he continued to commute the 50 miles to work even after his suspension, unable to admit to his family what had happened. Nine months later, he heard that there was still no date for an outcome to the prolonged police inquiry, and told his relatives. His brother Anwar said: "He just started to look very drawn, very tired and said he was ill." A week later he was found hanged, leaving his two children fatherless. "He has died due in no small part to the length of this inquiry and the fact that the CPS may not decide on charges for another 18 months," Ray Alderson, a colleague at Leeds, said. Anwar said: "He was only a lowly officer. He was brought more into it because he was Asian and understood the languages. He wasn't in any way trained. He asked for training and was refused it on the grounds of cost." A work colleague said: "He was hung out to dry by the management and then hung himself out to dry."