An investigation into alleged child sexual abuse involving the chairman of Humberside police authority is to be widened at the suggestion of a police watchdog.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has advised Humberside police to broaden the criminal inquiry as a result of the IPCC's investigations into how the force dealt with allegations made against Colin Inglis, who is also the Labour leader of Hull city council, nine years ago. The IPCC said in a statement: "The IPCC has looked at the investigation, which was concluded in 1998, and decided this should be included in the remit of the current investigation." Humberside police will forward this advice to North Yorkshire police, which was called in last year after concerns were raised about Humberside's ability to carry out an independent inquiry into its own police authority chairman. Mr Inglis, who has always strenuously denied the allegations,has said the allegations were politically motivated and homophobic. The two allegations involved his role as a social worker at Gleneagles children's home, in Hull, in the 1980s. The alleged victims were at the home at separate times. When it emerged that a new inquiry had been launched into further allegations, the original complainant contacted the IPCC to say the earlier inquiry had not been carried out properly. Shy Keenan, the founder of the Phoenix Survivors, a support group for abuse victims, said: "I'm pleased that the IPCC has chosen to broaden the remit to include the evidence from the first investigation. "I hope this will now make it clear how serious this inquiry is and how inappropriate it is for Colin Inglis to remain in public office at this time." All but one member of the Humberside police authority have stood by Mr Inglis. But John Neal, a North East Lincolnshire Liberal Democrat councillor, has said that he should "do the right thing" and stand down pending the outcome of the investigation. Last September, a 35-year-old financial services professional alleged that Mr Inglis sexually abused him at the children's home between the ages of 10 and 13. The allegations made in 1996 involved a man, now 33, who alleged that he had been abused from the age of 13 at the home. The police authority was surrounded by further controversy last year when Mr Inglis tried to prevent the then home secretary, David Blunkett, from suspending the chief constable, David Westwood, after he was criticised by the Bichard report into the Soham murders. In a statement last year, he said he was a victim of homophobia and claimed the allegations were politically motivated. He said he had always conducted himself in a "professional and caring fashion," and described the allegations as a"most unpleasant attempt to revive false accusations."