Amnesty International is today premiering a series of hard-hitting short films about domestic violence at Britain's largest shopping centre.Visitors to the Bluewater Shopping Centre in Kent, which is used by 27 million people a year, will be invited into special viewing booths by Amnesty International staff and volunteers to watch one-minute films about violence against women.The films, at only one minute long, are designed to appeal to busy shoppers with short attention spans. They focus on people's apathy and denial of domestic violence. One features a father who fails to see that his daughter is being abused by her husband. Other films show an employer who ignores his staff member's domestic violence injuries, a man who befriends his violent neighbour and a woman who is struggling to come to terms with her abuse.The campaigning group hopes the films will particularly resonate with men between the ages of 18 and 30 after research conducted into attitudes towards domestic violence revealed that young men are more likely to tolerate violence against women. A 2003 ICM survey showed that a third of all young men believed that domestic violence is acceptable in some circumstances, and that one in five men would not call the police if they knew someone was being violently abused by their partner.It is the latest phase in Amnesty International UK's Problem? What Problem? domestic violence campaign that is attempting to change attitudes towards violence against women in Britain. The UK campaign is part of a global Amnesty International programme to raise awareness of domestic violence."With two women a week dying every week through domestic violence we need new ways of communicating the simple truth that it's always wrong to ignore domestic violence," said Kate Allen, Amnesty International UK's director. "Research shows that complacency about domestic violence is shockingly widespread in Britain, and these short films give a clear message that everybody has a responsibility to bring domestic violence to an end." The films will be shown at Bluewater throughout the week before being rolled out across the UK and released as a campaigning DVD.