Once again the reputation of the Human Rights Act is left lying battered on the floor. This time it stands accused by Frances Lawrence, the widow of the murdered London headteacher Philip Lawrence, of blocking the deportation of his killer, Learco Chindamo, back to Italy if he is released next year after serving a life sentence.Mrs Lawrence said that she was "devastated and demoralised" by the ruling made by the three judges sitting on the asylum and immigration tribunal: "I'm unutterably depressed that the Human Rights Act has failed to encompass the rights of my family to lead a safe, secure and happy life. I have always been a staunch advocate of the Human Rights Act but there is a missing term in it. It must encompass some responsibility," said the anguished widow who, 12 years after the murder of her husband, says she can't survive this new setback.Her powerful testimony led the Daily Mail this morning to renew its demands that the Human Rights Act should be torn up. The Sun said the lunacy would only end when this wretched piece of legislation was scrapped while the Daily Telegraph confidently asserts that the offending article in the European convention on human rights is article 8 which guarantees the right to a private and family life.But in fact the lord chancellor, Jack Straw, tells us this morning that the Human Rights Act 1998, which incorporated the European convention on human rights, actually has nothing to do with this ruling which was made under European Union law governing the deportation of EU citizens between member states.Chindamo, now aged 26, came to Britain from Italy when he was five with his Italian father and his Filipino mother. He has an Italian passport but speaks no Italian and has spent the past 21 years in Britain. EU law says that citizens of one EU state can only be deported to another EU state if they pose a "fundamental threat to society". Next year the parole board will decide whether or not after serving 12 years his release would pose a risk to the public. If he does, they will not release him. It would seem that Chindamo would therefore only be released if he does not pose a "fundamental threat to society" and so would not qualify for deportation. Mrs Lawrence herself said today she could not disagree with the logic of the ruling by the asylum and immigration tribunal.But it has to be said that it is not easy to defend the Human Rights Act in this situation. The tribunal refuses to publish its determination in the case, saying such rulings are private matters so it is impossible to judge exactly the grounds for the decision. The judges involved make no effort to explain their decision. The Home Office, a party to the case with an eye on the tabloids, make clear they will "robustly" challenge the decision. It is left to the Justice Ministry to defend the Human Rights Act so Mr Straw gives a statutory interview to the BBC and says "job done".When the European convention of human rights was incorporated into British law as the Human Rights Act it was planned that a Human Rights Commission would be set up to explain and campaign for its terms - but that never happened. It has been left friendless with ministers mounting a firefighting case-by-case defence only when it suits them. No wonder it is left battered and bleeding on the floor even when it was nowhere near the scene of the crime, as always happens when the cry goes up: "Round up the usual suspects!"