The government last night signalled a crackdown on yob culture by announcing a nationwide electronic tagging scheme for all 10 to 15-year- olds as a part of an attempt to extend curfew orders on the young.Most curfews will require convicted youngsters to stay off the street at night. The measure follows a pilot project in 20 courts in Greater Manchester and Norfolk initiated by the last Conservative government's home secretary, Michael Howard. The powers to impose the curfew orders nationwide will be handed to courts early next year. The Home Office claimed commissioned research showed that the tagged curfew orders were popular with sentencers and that, generally, offenders and their families preferred to deal with the restrictions of the tagged curfew rather than the alternative of a custodial sentence. However, the study of the pilot programme also showed that low use of curfews stemmed from the belief that they were suitable only for a small number of young offenders. Social workers pointed out that nigthtime curfews could exacerbate tensions at home or add to a lack of familiy stability. The scheme was attacked by the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders and by Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers. Mr Fletcher said: "Tagging has no effect on crime or criminality and there is no proven deterrent effect. The danger is that younger children won't understand it and that older ones will see it as a trophy. What is needed is supervision and guidance, not electronic gimmicks." Defending the move yesterday the home secretary, Jack Straw, said: "The orders will help to break patterns of offending by keeping young offenders off the streets and out of trouble at the times they are most likely to offend." He claimed the tag monitored curfews would bring order to often chaotic lives. The Home Office research found that 155 curfew orders had been imposed in Manchester and Norfolk between March 1998 and February 2000. In total 10 orders were applied to girls and and none were made on 10-year-olds. Most were made on 14 to 15-year-olds. Over half the orders were imposed for theft or burglary with two thirds of the youngsters facing tags of between two to three months. The curfew normally lasted 10 to 12 hours a day, almost always at night. The research found that very little information on the tagging reached school officials with schools sometimes only hearing of the tag after being contacted by the parent. Most curfewed children said it meant they spent more time at home watching TV or sleeping, and less time pursuing leisure activities. In some cases, parents found they had to give up their jobs to look after their curfewed child. "There were only two cases where we were told a curfew enabled a young offender to make a break from a crowd of peers who had led them into trouble," the pilot study report concluded. The Home Office predicted about 1,200 curfew orders would be imposed nationwide thoughout England and Wales at a cost of £1.8m. Ministers have yet to decide whether to extend the scheme by making tags a condition of bail. The government hopes to go further on youth crime in the Queen's speech next month when they will propose fixed penalty fines for loutish antics, including drunkeness and anti-social behaviour.