I think I can safely say that I have never referred to someone as a yob. For anybody who might remotely qualify, I would probably choose a more objectionable epithet. Yob, a bit of Victorian backslang (boy spelled backwards, innit), is an awfully underpowered term for anyone who poses an actual threat, and twat will do for everybody else. Who uses yob any more, apart from politicians and tabloids?Not the police. Last week it was decided that the word should be banned from reports submitted to the Metropolitan police authority, when objections were raised after it appeared in the phrase "proactively tackling gangs and yobs across London". The obvious word to object to here is "proactively", but the authority's deputy chairman, Cindy Butts, said, "I have a problem with the language of 'yobs'. It sort of sets up and defines too much of a 'self' and 'other'."Whatever your particular take on the importance of using language sensitively, I think we can all agree that she didn't put that very well. Another member of the authority defended the ban by saying the word yob "can reflect on groups of youths who congregate, rather than those who carry out criminal activity". This is a better point. Being a yob isn't against the law, so the police can't really tackle it proactively anyway.Not surprisingly, this uncharacteristic stab at precision has been hailed as another example of political correctness gone mad. "The Sun," says the Sun, "is not afraid of the Y-word." The Daily Mail asked its readers the oddly tautological question, "Should the police stop calling thugs 'yobs'?" The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said, "With violent crime and antisocial behaviour soaring out of control on our streets, the public will expect police chiefs to have more pressing matters on their minds." David Davis, fortunately, had nothing more pressing to comment upon (this much he and I have in common). Norman Brennan, of the Victims of Crime Trust said, "If you don't like being called a yob, stop acting like one." Who is he talking to?In the Mail, Richard Barnes, a Tory member of the police authority, tried to make the case for plain speaking: "When we hear the word 'yobs' we know what we are talking about." The article was illustrated with a picture of two boys and a girl, leaning against a wall and holding cans of Stella. Next to it were the words, "Posed by models". Presumably they feared that if they tried to photograph an actual yob who then turned about to be, for lack of a better term, an innocent child, they might get in some sort of trouble.It's hard to see how the fight against crime is hampered by the police authority's lack of recourse to the word yob, but tabloids and politicians have a real need of a term which might be defined as "youths who engage in a wide of range anti-social behaviours, from murder to repeatedly kicking a ball against a wall, and all those who look vaguely like them". The thesaurus offers ruffian, knave, lout, hoodlum, larrikin, layabout, terror, tough, rowdy and rogue. Why don't they try mixing them up a little?