A woman has admitted concealing the births of four stillborn babies and keeping three of them in her wardrobe for 20 years.Bernadette Quirk illegally buried one baby in a cemetery and wrapped the other three in newspaper and rags and kept them in a small plastic bin with an air freshener. Their remains were discovered in July last year by Quirk's daughter, Joanne Lee, who contacted police.At Liverpool crown court today, Quirk, of St Helens, Merseyside, admitted four counts of concealing births. She will be sentenced on 11 October.The 55-year-old said she had given birth to the babies between 1985 and 1995. There was no explanation about why she had taken the remains with her when she moved home several times.Detective Chief Inspector Neil Bickley, of Merseyside police, said Quirk had "a chaotic lifestyle". Quirk said she only remembered three of the children. Two of the babies were twins, and all four were girls.Quirk told detectives they were all stillborn. Forensic tests did not prove otherwise, and police said there was insufficient evidence to charge anyone else with the disposal of the remains.Today, Quirk's barrister, Ian Morris, said: "The basis of plea is she concealed the births and didn't register the births of any of the babies. She doesn't challenge the prosecution summary. She would just like to make it clear, as supported by the medical evidence, the children were stillborn when she gave birth to them."Asked by Judge Henry Globe QC, for more specifics, he added: "She struggles to recall. She can't place any years of the births. She describes that period of her life as chaotic and out of control and has buried a number of memories at the back of her mind. She is at a loss to explain many of the things that were happening in her life at that period."Morris said though Quirk could not remember the fourth baby she had "little option but to plead guilty" because of overwhelming evidence she was the mother. He said there was no issue about his client's mental health, though when she was arrested last year she was being treated at Whiston Hospital for depression.Scientists established that all the babies were full term, he added, but they could not determine the cause of the stillbirths. A forensic anthropologist told detectives the babies were born with skeletal abnormalities and foetal growth restriction.The investigation, and Quirk's inability to remember details, presented detectives with a series of problems.Bickley said: "It was a very difficult investigation and not something I have experience of, made harder by the passage of time and the condition of the babies."The Recorder of Liverpool, Judge Henry Globe, adjourned the hearing for reports because "there is a background here that I need to understand". He said: "You have pleaded guilty to four very serious offences and I must keep all options open, including the possibility of a custodial sentence for such matters."As she awaits sentence, Quirk's relatives plan to give the four babies a proper burial.