Police were today assessing more than $6bn (£4.4bn) worth of suspect US bonds seized together with a hoard of drugs during a raid on a suspected Colombian drug ring operating out of Britain.The national crime squad (NCS) swooped on addresses in north London and Essex during two raids in July and August. They found the suspect bonds, 55,000 ecstasy tablets, 15 kilos of amphetamine powder, a couple of kilos of ecstasy powder, a pill press and a negligible amount of cocaine. They also seized goods, including cars, houses and furniture, estimated to be worth about £7m.If the bonds prove genuine, the raids will become one of the biggest hauls in criminal history. "We went in there looking for drugs, searching for drugs - anything other than that is a bit of a bonus," an NCS spokeswoman said. "We are still conducting inquiries as to whether the bonds are genuine or not."News of the busts emerged last night after Colombian authorities announced details. Police in Britain, Colombia and Ecuador had kept the raids out of the media in order to complete their investigations of the drugs ring.Nine men were charged with conspiracy to import cocaine and conspiracy to supply ecstasy. They are all from north London or Essex, although one also has a house in Colombia. The men appeared in a court in Aldershot, Hampshire, on July 20 and August 9 and are due at Winchester crown court in mid-November, the NCS spokeswoman said.Following the raids, NCS passed information on to the Colombian authorities, leading to the seizure of 9.5 kilos of cocaine by police in Ecuador. Two people, believed to be Colombians, were arrested by Colombian authorities last Friday."During our investigation we came across a lot of things that were linked to Colombia," the NCS spokeswoman said. "We contacted the Colombians and started working together and started to exchange intelligence." In Britain, three other men and a woman were arrested in addition to the nine charged, but all four were released on police bail. Guillermo Anibal Ortega, director of the investigative unit in Colombia's attorney general's office, said: "This is a very important victory, because it represents the most overwhelming blow against drug trafficking and money laundering." The ring allegedly sent drugs from Colombia to Europe via countries such as Ecuador and Mexico. Mr Ortega declined to identify the drug cartel most affected by the blow, since authorities plan to continue making arrests in other European countries. The official said the British and Colombian authorities had been sharing intelligence for the past six months. 