Two teenagers and an adult male have been arrested by Manchester police in connection with the murder of an Indian university student who was shot in the head at point blank range in the early hours of Boxing Day as he made his way to Christmas sales.Anuj Bidve, 23, was gunned down as he walked from a budget Salford hotel with nine friends and fellow students towards central Manchester, eager to queue for early-morning bargains.Bidve, a straight-A student from south-west India who was studying for a postgraduate degree in microelectronics at Lancaster University, died after being approached by two males in the street at about 1.35am in what police described as a killing without obvious motive.Police said there was as yet no evidence to suggest the attack was a robbery or that the students knew the males. T hey are not ruling out racist motives. After pulling the trigger, the gunman fled towards the Ordsall estate, a few hundred yards from the scene of a shooting in September.Sheetal Patel, 25, told the Guardian she had held Bidve's hand as he lay dying in the street. Patel, a cake maker, said she had been driving past when the student's friends waved her car down."When we arrived at the scene, the guy was lying on the floor. I was holding his hand, but he was alive," she said. "He was making noises. All I was saying is you're very strong, you're going to be all right."We just kept on trying to keep him breathing and to make him know that we were there. There was one guy holding Anuj's head trying to put pressure on the wound. And there was another guy who was on the phone to the police."Patel said that "he was shot in the head, but the bullet didn't go through his head" and there did not appear to be an exit wound. "We all thought he was going to live," she said.Patel said it had seemed to take more than 25 minutes for the emergency services to respond. "The response time took too long … We were thinking should we put him in a car and take him to hospital ourselves … We didn't know what we were doing. I make cakes, I don't have a clue about first aid or anything."Patel said Bidve's distraught friends had reported that before firing the gun the two males asked what time it was, in a conversation described by police as "very short". "I don't know who told them to walk to Manchester at that time of the morning through that estate. Everyone knows not to walk through that estate, it's rough," she added.Police said that a 17-year-old was being held on suspicion of murder following the execution of an arrest warrant in the Salford area. A 16-year-old was arrested later and held in custody on the same charge. Late last night, a third arrest was made – that of an adult male.Bidve's family have paid tribute to him. In a statement, they said: "Anuj was a loving son, a super caring brother and first and forever a friend for many. He valued his relationships and put them over anything else. He was the first person you could call when in trouble."Anuj loved to travel and loved his food. He loved to cook. He could easily bring a smile on anyone's face with his innocent jokes. His passing will not only leave a void in our lives, but in the hearts of all those who knew him."Suruchi Wagh, Bidve's cousin, speaking from the family's home city of Pune, 100 miles south-east of Mumbai, said: "We pray to God that no one is ever put in this situation. The whole family is upset and we want to see him one last time."Wagh said her cousin, a keen Manchester United supporter, had been very excited about his postgraduate project at Lancaster university and had attained all As in his first semester.British police told Bidve had struggled for a few minutes before dying. "The [worst thing] is he was not with us [when he died], and more than that we can't do anything sitting here. We have to wait until whenever it takes for the body to come."Bidve's brother-in-law, Rakesh Sonawane, 30, said: "Anuj had been very happy. It was his dream to go to the UK but unfortunately his dream could not last longer than three months." Sonawane added: "He loved to travel and make friends. He had lots of friends. You only have to look at his Facebook page to see how many friends and followers he had. We have completely lost faith in everything."The student's father, Subhash, a branch manager with an energy company, left a message on his son's Facebook page calling on the UK government and the Indian high commission to speed up the process of returning his son's body to India.Two other Facebook pages have been set up to organise peace marches in Bidve's memory on 2 January. One, in Mumbai, will set off from the city's historic India Gate and end at the British consulate. A second will be in Salford.Chief Superintendent Kevin Mulligan, of Greater Manchester police, said "no stone will be unturned" in the investigation.Professor Bob McKinlay, deputy vice-chancellor of Lancaster University, paid tribute to the murdered student: "He was an outstanding applicant at the very beginning of a promising career and had only been at Lancaster for a short time. We are deeply saddened by his loss and our thoughts are with his family and friends."