The Metropolitan Police commissioner Ian Blair has the full support of the Metropolitan Police Federation in his desire for the Met to embrace diversity (Met chief: my critics will not stop me, July 2). We understand and endorse the need to understand and respect all of London's communities.That said, it is also incumbent on him to ensure that he too acts appropriately at all times. The commissioner continues to assert that the comments of one of the officers involved in the recent high-profile employment-tribunal race-discrimination case taken against the service by three white officers were "Islamophobic": "That language was gratuitous, offensive and deliberate." In fact, the initial investigating officer, followed by the discipline tribunal and finally the country's most senior Asian officer, assistant commissioner Tarique Ghaffur - all of whom had an intimate knowledge of the case - found otherwise. Not unnaturally, the employment tribunal found for the officers. It really is time for the commissioner to stop digging and start concentrating on the important and difficult job he has to do, to which end the Met branch of the Police Federation wish to support him. Glen SmythChairman, Metropolitan Police FederationIan Blair is absolutely right to say "You can't police London without understanding the diverse communities we serve". And he has the support of Londoners. More than a third of Londoners are of African, Caribbean, Asian or other ethnic-minority heritage. Yet only 6% of police officers in London are black or Asian. A poll, conducted by Mori for the Greater London Authority in June, found that 73% of Londoners want the police service to better reflect London's different communities. Only 17% of Londoners disagree. All Londoners pay the taxes which fund the police and other public services and all Londoners should have the right to be policed by their peers. A police service which reflects London's diversity will be more effective in tackling crime because it will command the confidence of all of the communities it serves. Ken LivingstoneMayor of London