A teenager admitted he and his brother murdered Damilola Taylor but claimed they would escape justice as the police had no evidence and they were "untouchable", the Old Bailey was told yesterday.The youth also allegedly told a fellow detainee at a young offenders' institute that Damilola was killed because he was "lippy" and he would do the same thing again. It is alleged that the conversation took place three months after Damilola's death while the brothers, now 16, were on remand on unrelated charges at Feltham young offenders' institute in south-west London. The fellow detainee, who was on the books of a professional football club at the time, claimed he had a conversation with one of the brothers, whom he described as "the mouthy" one, in a corner of a wing. The witness, who is now 18, said: "He was hyperactive about it. He got a buzz out of what he done. He was boasting." He claimed the brother said they attacked Damilola for his mobile phone and killed him because he was "getting lippy" before throwing the murder weapon into a lake. However, the prosecution has claimed Damilola was not known to have a mobile phone and was stabbed with a broken beer bottle, the pieces of which were found. The 18-year-old is one of a series of witnesses who claim the brothers made admissions about the death of Damilola while they were in Feltham and another young offenders' institution. The witness said of the brother: "He was boasting about how he killed him. He said he had no regrets." Asked whether he would do the same thing again he said he would. "He was saying the police haven't got shit on them." He said the brother claimed they were untouchable. During cross examination it emerged that the 18-year-old was on remand at Feltham for robbing a 70-year-old woman who suffered a broken shoulder. He admitted a detective spoke to a judge on his behalf when he was sentenced. The brothers and a 15-year-old boy deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob Damilola, who bled to death after being stabbed with a broken bottle in Peckham, south London, in November 2000. The case continues.