A long time ago in China, a philosopher was asked the first thing he would do if he became ruler. The philosopher thought for a while, and then said: well, if something had to be put first, I would rectify the names for things. His companion was baffled: what did this have to do with good government? The philosopher lamented his companion's foolishness, and explained. When the names for things are incorrect, speech does not sound reasonable; when speech does not sound reasonable, things are not done properly; when things are not done properly, the structure of society is harmed; when the structure of society is harmed, punishments do not fit the crimes; and when punishments do not fit the crimes, the people don't know what to do. "The thing about the gentleman," he warned, "is that he is anything but casual where speech is concerned." The philosopher's name was Confucius, and he was referring to a phenomenon that is all around us today. He was talking about what I call unspeak.What is unspeak? It represents an attempt to say something without saying it, without getting into an argument and so having to justify itself. At the same time, it tries to unspeak - in the sense of erasing, or silencing - any possible opposing point of view, by laying a claim right at the start to only one way of looking at a problem.In 2003, an 87-year-old man from Merseyside was ordered by a court not to make "sarcastic remarks" to his neighbours. Then a 27-year-old Scottish woman was threatened with jail if she was seen by neighbours at her window "wearing only her undergarments". What did these prohibitions have in common? They were all examples of a new legal device that sought to repress "antisocial behaviour", a term with a rich cargo of unspeak.Antisocial Behaviour Orders (Asbos) were introduced in the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act. If a person was found by a court to have engaged in "antisocial behaviour", he or she could be served with an Asbo prohibiting them for a period of at least two years from engaging in a wide range of activities, not limited to those already indulged in. Subsequently, if he or she were found to have broken the order, they would face a prison term of up to five years. In threatening recidivists with a big penal stick, the Asbo was in one way related to the "three strikes and you're out" legislation enacted in many states of the US since the late 1980s. California has among the harshest such laws: in 2003, the supreme court upheld a man's sentence of 50 years to life after his "third strike" offence, in which he shoplifted some video-tapes.While Asbos threatened shorter sentences, they were in a sense more radical. The actions they prohibited were not crimes in the first place - otherwise they could have been dealt with in the normal fashion by the criminal law. Since people were going to be threatened with long periods of incarceration as a result of committing acts that were not crimes in themselves, it was presumably of the utmost importance to be quite definite about what "antisocial behaviour" really was. In fact, the government chose the opposite route.Alun Michael, minister of state at the Home Office, was responsible for steering the legislation through scrutiny by the House of Commons. During questioning by MPs in 1998, Michael steadfastly refused to define "antisocial behaviour". He rejected proposed amendments that would "specify the behaviour, or ... define it as serious, [or] specify that a threshold should be defined". As eventually passed, the Crime and Disorder Act defined antisocial behaviour only in this way: as behaviour by an individual "that caused or was likely to cause harassment, alarm or distress to one or more persons not of the same household as himself". Moreover, the decision as to whether the subject had been "antisocial" in the first place, and so merited the subsequent imposition of an Asbo, depended only on the civil standard of proof (the "balance of probabilities"), rather than the criminal standard ("beyond a reasonable doubt")."Antisocial" has two quite different meanings. The first is "opposed to sociality, averse to society or companionship". In that sense you might not want to go to a party. The second meaning is far wider: "opposed to the principles on which society is constituted", or "persons or actions devoid of or antagonistic to normal social instincts or practices". With Asbos, the meaning of "antisocial" clearly leans towards the second definition, either opposed to society as a whole or opposed to certain "normal" social practices. But a judgment of "antisocial behaviour" can arise from the perceived harassment, alarm, or distress of, in the language of the Crime and Disorder Act, "one or more persons" - ie, possibly only one person. What if I think that it is "antisocial" to talk loudly on a mobile phone in a cafe - is an Asbo the correct approach there? In the case of the young Scottish woman served with an Asbo for being seen in her underwear, for instance, one might reasonably suggest that her neighbours ought simply to stop peering in at her windows if they don't like what they see.Alun Michael at one point sought to deflect such annoying questions posed by his fellow MPs, by denying that "antisocial behaviour" really meant anything at all. "I was asked whether the term 'antisocial behaviour' added anything to the bill," he told the committee. "Legally, it does not, but it is an essential label that sets out clearly and succinctly what the provision is about: preventing antisocial behaviour." To enshrine a legally meaningless PR catchphrase in national legislation might be considered a recipe for confusion and misunderstanding, rather than something that would "clearly and succinctly" inform the public. So it proved to be.Let us look, then, at some examples. In some cases, Asbos had been used with success to tackle clearly aggressive and violent behaviour, such as intimidation of the elderly on council housing estates, or to keep in check ugly disputes between neighbours. In cases where it could be clearly determined that genuinely high levels of "harassment, alarm or distress" were being caused, the Asbo might be an effective tool.In 2004, however, a 39-year-old man was convicted for having breached the terms of his Asbo. The order in question had "prohibited him from entering Birmingham city centre, using or engaging in any threatening, abusive, offensive, intimidating, insulting language or behaviour, or engaging in violence or damage against any person or property within the city centre". He had been seen on a city-centre closed-circuit television camera, where he "appeared to be asking for money and acting in [an] aggressive manner when money [was] refused"; he subsequently "spat in an officer's face when in [the] police station following arrest". The man was sentenced to 45 months in prison. Had it been reasonable to ban him from ever going into the centre of Birmingham? Was nearly four years in prison a reasonable punishment for begging, even "aggressive" begging?The editor of Criminal Law Week thought not. The length of "imprisonment for conduct which per se was either not criminal at all or, to the extent that it was criminal, was non-imprisonable, merely serves to highlight the true nature of the antisocial behaviour legislation as a Vagrancy Act for the 21st century," he wrote. The Vagrancy Act of 1824 had provided for the imprisonment of "incorrigible rogues", for a period wholly out of proportion to the specific act that had led to their arrests. Similarly with Asbos. This had all been predictable, perhaps, from the deliberate vagueness of the legislation: Asbos positively invited "abuses" precisely because of the transparently unspeak way in which they had been defined. Facetious or overly onerous terms in Asbos contributed to the fact that, by summer 2005, 42% of all Asbos were being breached, a figure that cast considerable doubt on the extent of their deterrent power.The government's enthusiasm for vacant "labels" was further underscored last month with the release of a 44-page document called the Respect Action Plan. The reliable bogeyman of "antisocial behaviour" returned here with a vengeance, as a symptom of the most pressing problem besieging society: a lack of respect. The prime minister's foreword said: "It is not in my gift, or that of anyone in central government, to guarantee good behaviour or to impose a set of common values about acceptable behaviour. But we will set out a framework of powers and approaches to promote respect positively ..."How was it to be done? Why, by increasing the use of Asbos and other punitive instruments, "strengthening summary powers", and introducing a bizarrely named new species of person: the "antisocial behaviour champion". This was not meant to be someone who fights for the right to binge-drink and intimidate little old ladies, but a person who, according to the National Children's Bureau, would work to "promote better understanding of antisocial behaviour cases" - in other words, act as a PR agent for the government's policy. Throughout the Respect Action Plan, authoritarianism was recast as caring. Thus, a proposed increase in the use of Parenting Orders, according to which parents are threatened with heavy fines if their children misbehave, would "help" the subjects "become better parents".And so the vision of "promot[ing] respect positively" was to be carried out with threats. You might want to say that this amounted to promoting respect negatively. There is an essential reciprocity inherent in a genuine idea of respect: after all, the word comes from the Latin for to look back: to look back at someone who is, in turn, looking at you. The Respect Action Plan paid lip-service to this notion in some of its sloganeering chapter headings ("Give Respect Get Respect"), but its policy message was quite different: Respect, or else. Does such a stance itself deserve respect? Conducted as it is in such terms, the government's "drive" could hardly avoid the question. Official habits of unspeak, indeed, can and should be thrown back in the perpetrators' faces.In the wide and often fatuous prohibitions on behaviour imposed by Asbos, it indeed seemed that the British government and courts were extending their role into that of managing day-to-day morality, in an attempt to "guarantee good behaviour". Yet it is not clear that most people really do want the law to govern all aspects of their behaviour. All crime is antisocial, but not everything we might call antisocial should be a crime.There is a host of excellent reasons why law should not be entirely coextensive with morality. During the Terror in revolutionary France, Robespierre equated justice with virtue, and incivisme - lack of civic virtue, or in other words, "antisocial behaviour" - became a crime. If all our actions were governed by fear of state retribution, the idea of moral or virtuous behaviour for its own sake would be degraded. More importantly, people in large democratic countries can, and very often do, have reasonable disagreements over moral questions.Yet the germ of the idea that no part of the moral life should go ungoverned by the state is already present in the practice, now enshrined in British law, of punishing "antisocial behaviour". The American commentator Christopher Caldwell, observing the beginnings of a similar trend in the US, argued that all such initiatives were "attempts to promote sentiments of community when such sentiments do not arise spontaneously". Indeed, what better way to conjure up a sense of social cohesion than the historically tried-and-tested method of demonising those who are deemed not to fit in, those who are "antisocial"?Let us suppose for the sake of argument that society is best served by rational debate conducted in honest language. In that case, the government's long campaign against "antisocial behaviour", cloaking prejudicial and intolerant policies in cunningly misleading language, has from its inception been a powerfully antisocial phenomenon.· This is an edited extracted from Unspeak, published by Little, Brown at £9.99. © Steven Poole 2006To order a copy for £9.99 with free UK p&p go to Guardian.co.uk/bookshop or call 0870 836 0875.