A London Underground worker who was among the first to arrive at one of the bombed tube carriages on July 7 was told to "piss off" by his superior when he rushed back to collect more first aid equipment to treat the injured and dying, he said today.Imran Chaudhury fought back tears as he said one of the duty station managers at Kings Cross, Ken Leach, tried to obstruct him from collecting bandages from the station's control room, despite the fact that his clothing was covered in blood and injured passengers could clearly be seen on CCTV emerging from the ruined train.Leach's superior, group station manager Peter Sanders, had also been in the room but had said nothing, said Chaudhury, which still "haunts" him, he told the inquest into the deaths of the victims of the bomb attacks. Fifty-two people died in the attacks, 26 were killed in the Kings Cross blast."He said I haven't got a licence to be in the control room. For me that was very upsetting. I didn't get help from the management."Fiona Canby, counsel for Transport for London, said Mr Leach was the "silver" commander in charge of London Underground's response to the King's Cross bombing and was trying to get more first aid equipment.Leach will give evidence to the inquest next week.Speaking softly and with frequent pauses to compose himself, Chaudhury, who in 2005 was a customer service assistant and the designated first aider on duty, described in graphic terms the horrific scenes on the bombed Piccadilly Line train between Kings Cross and Russell Square.He said he continued to perform first aid until his bandages ran out, but had been unable to do much more than offer reassurance to passengers."I can still feel it. I still smell it. Even now [as] we speak it goes through my head."Earlier, other LU staff told of their own "devastation" that they were unable to radio for help while they waited almost an hour for the emergency services.Gary Stevens, Cook's opposite number at Russell Square, told the inquest that he would have given up "a year's salary" to have had a functioning radio to alert paramedics of the scale of the disaster, having ventured onto the carriage, deep in the Piccadilly line tunnel, from the other direction. The system used by London Underground at that time did not work in deep tunnels, he said.Instead he was obliged to send a colleague back along the track to the station, a 10-12 minute walk, to appeal for help while he stayed in the pitch black and soot-filled carriage, without a first aid kit or even a torch."I was devastated that I couldn't offer more assistance," he said.He said that colleagues had finally arrived carrying blankets and sheets from a nearby hotel which they were forced to use to carry the many dreadfully wounded people from the carriage back to the platform at Russell Square."Every time we went back we asked, is there any more assistance? The paramedics are not here yet? But then we realised that we had to go back and help the others that were still there."The inquests have already heard that the emergency services were delayed in their arrival at Russell Square because of confusion over the location of the bomb. They did not arrive at the bombed carriage until approximately 9.45am, 55 minutes after the explosion.The coroner also heard from Patrick Barnes, a commuter who survived the explosion but whose friend Philip Beer, who had been standing opposite him, was killed."I screamed out to Phil, 'Are you OK?' and he said 'No.' I said 'Where are you?' and he said, 'I don't know.'I then said to him, 'Are we going to die?' and he said, 'No, everything is going to be OK.'"Barnes then described in distressing terms how he had no longer heard anything from Beer, despite repeatedly screaming his name. Bleeding from the arm and clearly in deep shock, he stumbled out of the carriage, where he was helped to the platform and eventually treated by medics."I remember the whole time I was calling to them, to the doctors, to find my friend." Beer, a hairdresser from Borehamwood, was 22 when he died.