The jury in the Damilola Taylor murder trial were shown video footage of him shortly before his death and heard how he had been in a playful mood.The Old Bailey heard that the compilation of CCTV footage was made from cameras in and around Peckham library in south London, where Damilola was attending an after-school computer class. The 10-year-old was seen skipping along and playing tag with a friend. He was wearing the silver puffa jacket, which the prosecution says made him a target for a gang of robbers who killed him. Damilola bled to death in November 2000 after being stabbed in the thigh. Four youths deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. The accused, brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old, sat with their legal representatives as they watched from a number of television screens around the court.Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria and their son Tunde, 22, also watched from the side of the court. Mrs Taylor left the court shortly after the video started. Mark Dennis, prosecuting, read transcripts from video interviews of children who had been with Damilola at the library after school. An 11-year-old classmate said that he watched Damilola going towards the library from a bus. He said: "Damilola was alone and appeared to be mucking about, jumping or hopping as he walked. "He was leaping on his left leg as if his right leg was hurting. He appeared to be mucking about because he was okay when he came running up to the library." The boy said that in the fourth floor of the library, Damilola was "play fighting" with another boy. The second boy, also aged 11, had gone to the library with his seven-year-old sister. The children said they knew Damilola from the library. Mr Dennis said the second witness told police: "They were laughing and making a noise, and became playful pushing and tripping each other." The librarian had gone over and asked them to go outside. After a while, he asked the librarian permission to return with his sister, but Damilola walked off. The sister said that, as they waited, her brother had playfully chased Damilola around a bench.Later, a series of witnesses told the court they had seen groups of youths in the area of Blakes Road where Damilola was surrounded and fatally attacked.The trial continues.