Armed police arrested a man listening to his MP3 player and took a sample of his DNA after a fellow commuter mistook the music player for a gun.Darren Nixon had been waiting at a bus stop in Stoke-on-Trent on his way home from work when a woman saw him reach into his pocket and take out a black Phillips MP3 player. The woman thought it was a pistol and called 999.Police tracked 28-year-old Nixon using CCTV, sending three cars to follow him. When he got off the bus, armed officers surrounded him. He was driven to a police station, kept in a cell and had his fingerprints, photograph and DNA taken.He was freed when Staffordshire police realised it was a false alarm - but will now have his DNA stored on a national database for life with a record that he was arrested on suspicion of a firearms offence."It was unreal," he told the Metro newspaper. "I had a completely clean record before this, and have always been a law-abiding citizen."Nixon, a mechanic, said that as he got off the bus and started to walk home on January 26, he saw a policeman gesture but could not hear what he said."I turned the music off and they were telling me to put my hands up in the air," he added. "My heart was racing a mile a minute. One of them was hiding behind a car door, looking down his sights at me, and the other was shouting orders and pointing a gun at me."It was a pretty scary experience. I had no idea what was going on."Nixon has received an apology from Staffordshire police. "'We received a report from a member of the public who had seen a man appear to pull a hand gun from a jacket pocket, grip it with both hands and aim it," a Staffordshire police spokesman said. "An operation was put in place and a man matching the description was detained."He said the description was "extremely good", enabling officers to act quickly.The Liberal Democrats, who are campaigning to have the DNA records of innocent people destroyed, said the national DNA database now held more than 3m records kept for life, an estimated 125,000 of which belong to people who were neither cautioned or charged."There is no reason that [Nixon] is on the government's database other than he was in the wrong place in the wrong time, and that could happen to all of us," Lynne Featherstone, the party's spokesperson for youth and equalities, said.  "The use of DNA is vital to modern policing, but not letting people remove their DNA when it is has been proved they have done absolutely nothing wrong would seem more at home in a fascist state than a free and fair society."