William Gage, who was convicted of murder in 2004 and sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum of 20 years before he becomes eligible for parole, may be about to see a change in his fortunes.Earlier this month, the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC), which investigates possible miscarriages of justice, referred his case to the high court. While there is no guarantee that he will be freed, it is possible that the jury verdict that sent him to Shotts maximum security prison in Lanarkshire, Scotland, may be overturned.Gage, 38, who bought and sold used cars, is in prison for a high-profile murder. At about 10pm on 7 March 2002, Justin McAlroy was shot five times outside his house in Cambuslang, Glasgow. He had crawled under his car in an attempt to escape, but died a few hours later in the city's Victoria Infirmary.The shocking circumstances of the killing – his pregnant wife, Tracy, heard the shots from inside the house and glimpsed the killer as he ran away – alone ensured that it would be a big news story. But McAlroy was not just anyone. He had contacts and enemies in the criminal world. During the trial the court heard that McAlroy was under surveillance by the Scottish drug enforcement agency.His father, Thomas McAlroy, was a millionaire businessman who donated thousands of pounds to the Scottish Labour party. Only six days before his death, Justin McAlroy attended a Labour party fundraising dinner at his father's golf and country club. Also present were Jack McConnell, an MSP, and John Reid, the former home secretary.In such a high-profile case, the police were under pressure to achieve results. On a sunny morning in May 2002 police arrested Gage in the West End of Glasgow. He was detained on suspicion of McAlroy's murder. As Gage would admit, he was no angel. At the time of his arrest he was out on parole, having served three and a half years of a seven-year sentence for his part in an armed robbery as the getaway driver.After his arrest for murder, Gage contacted the Miscarriages of Justice Organisation Scotland. John McManus, one of its founders, described the ensuing trial as a "theatrical farce" and dismissed the evidence as being full of "supposition and assumptions".Gage denied murdering McAlroy and perverting the course of justice by trying to destroy evidence in the getaway car. The prosecution's case was built around the discovery of Gage's DNA in a white Saab and the presence of firearm discharge residue (FDR) found on items of clothing, a black cagoule jacket, a snood (a hood or scarf) and a pair of gloves.In a key moment of the trial, Tracy McAlroy, who said she would never forget the killer's "evil eyes" (his face was covered), identified Gage as her husband's killer.In his summing up the judge, Lord Emslie, seemed to draw the jury's attention to discrepancies in the prosecution's case. He pointed out the contrast between the descriptions of the padded Inuit-style jacket worn by the killer with the thin cagoule found in the Saab; he noted that it was beyond dispute that items in the car bore Gage's DNA, but asked members of the jury whether they were convinced that the Saab had, in fact, been the getaway car; and he cautioned them about the testimony given by Tracy McAlroy.He said: "I would have to direct you in that situation, that is if it is the wrong car and the wrong jacket – you would have no proper corroboration, no proper corroborative basis, to hold this murder charge proved against the accused, William Gage, and you would require to return a verdict of acquittal, if all you were left with was a few people who said general things about build and one person, Tracy McAlroy, claiming to recognise eyes: that would not be enough."The jury found Gage guilty of murder after the two and a half-week trial. He was sentenced in February 2004. His appeal was rejected in 2006 and, in December 2007, the SCCRC decided not to refer his case to the high court.But the commission reversed its decision on 12 June. It is understood that it was troubled by Tracy McAlroy's identification of Gage in court. While it is a staple of film and television courtroom dramas, "dock identification" has long been considered an outdated and unreliable method of helping to convict people. While the commission took note of Emslie's comments to the jury about Tracy McAlroy's evidence, it highlights his failure to address the risks associated with identification from the dock."The commission is struck by the absence of any reference to the dangers inherent in a dock identification, or of any reference to the fact that no previous, fairer identification had been obtained (there was no identification parade)," the report said.The commission also raised concerns about the identification of the white Saab by one witness, Charles Bowman. Bowman, a night security man, initially thought he had seen a Volvo but changed his mind when the police showed him a Saab. The commission said that no attempt was made to highlight the potential for Bowman's evidence to be tainted, given that he had originally identified a different make and model of car. Similar concerns were raised about the identification of clothing, including the jacket.After 89 pages, the report concluded: "The commission believes that there may have been a miscarriage of justice in the applicant's case. The commission also believes that it is in the interests of justice that the case be referred to the high court for determination. The commission accordingly does so."