The home secretary, Charles Clarke, is battling to win Tony Blair's backing to release hundreds of prisoners early under curfew enforced by electronic tags to head off the growing crisis in England and Wales.Ministers yesterday decided to accelerate the introduction of 500 extra places in the next few weeks as the jail population reached 77,622 - just 527 places short of "house full" limit. With the population growing at 250 a week the home secretary is pressing Downing Street for urgent permission to extend the early release scheme for prisoners so they can leave jail six months early rather than the current four and half months.But Mr Blair, who has upped his rhetoric in recent weeks about the need to get tough on crime and anti-social behaviour, has yet to give his backing. "No one is saying it is not being kicked around. But no decision has been taken yet,"' said a Downing Street spokesman.Options include bringing back moth-balled prison wings into use and a further extension of community service orders.About 3,000 prisoners at any one time serve the last four and half months of their sentence on a tag at home and under curfew. Raising the period to six months would cut the daily population by a further 1,000 and would only apply to those serving sentences of less than four years. Sex offenders and violent criminals cannot apply. It is believed that Mr Clarke has ruled out the possibility of executive release to curb an overcrowding crisis.Two new prisons as part of a £100m programme are planned to increase the capacity of the system. But they will not be available until at least next June when the capacity is planned to be 79,100 rising to 80,400 by 2007.The Home Office minister, Fiona Mactaggart, insisted the surge in prison numbers was a "spike" in the trend. "We are facing a spike in the prison population. We do always have an operating margin." She said there were plans to bring an extra 500 places on stream within the next few weeks - mainly from wings which are being refurbished - but confirmed that the expansion of home detention curfew was being considered."We are looking at whether we can expand the use of existing home detention curfew scheme. There is no decision taken. It is one of the options we are looking at if this spike continues." She added that one reason for the rise was much greater efficiency in dealing with people who breached the terms of their community punishments.Penal reformers backed the possible extension of home detention curfew. Juliet Lyon of the Prison Reform Trust said that more than 90% of those on the scheme did not reoffend after their release."The solution to this crisis and many others lie outside the prison walls in drug treatment, mental health care, cutting unnecessary remands and recalls to jail and community service for offenders," she said.But the Prison Officers' Association said that the tagging scheme should not be used as a "safety valve" to ease the problem. "If the courts continue to be determined to send people to prison then we have got to be able to deal with it. Tagging is not for dealing with too many people, it is for dealing with certain types of offences," said its general secretary, Brian Caton.