Armed with copies of the Daily Mail and Daily Mirror as aides-memoire, detectives stepped into an interview room to quiz the man who has become known to the world as the 'back from the dead' canoeist.Using his wife's story, poured out to those newspapers in eye-watering detail, they were unpicking five years in which John Darwin allegedly faked his own death to escape debts, lived in secret with his wife even as his sons grieved for him, and finally gave himself up to police.Yesterday police continued to investigate how Darwin obtained a passport to travel abroad. The 57-year-old remained in custody, almost certainly unaware of the outrageous 'Reggie Perrin' details his wife, Anne, was telling the press from her new home in Panama.Five years ago, Darwin disappeared from his home in Seaton Carew, near Hartlepool, and was presumed drowned after his wrecked canoe was found. That was until he walked into a central London police station at the start of this month, looking tanned and healthy, and announced: 'I think I'm a missing person.' Day by day, his claim of amnesia has spectacularly unravelled, although he has not publicly changed his story.'I know it seems too incredible to be true. But it is,' Mrs Darwin, 55, said in interviews published yesterday. 'For three years, while virtually everyone close to us believed John was missing presumed dead, he was actually at home with me. We were living as man and wife, though it was far from a conventional life. It was hard not to tell the boys, but John was adamant they must not know anything.'Mrs Darwin, who is expected to be arrested when she returns to Britain, claimed that her husband hid in a bedsit next to their house when their two sons visited because he was adamant they should not know the truth. She put the phone on loudspeaker if they called so he could listen in. Declared officially dead by a coroner, Darwin took walks on a beach alledgedly hiding his identity with a woolly hat and a walking stick.His existence was likened to that of a wartime spy in an occupied country. Phillip Hodson, a fellow of the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy, said Darwin had effectively confined himself to solitary confinement and in a sense had also faked the death of his sons because they effectively became dead to him.'He was effectively telling them he didn't care about their feelings and that if they were grieving for him it was the price they must pay.'For investigators working on the case, there is a tried and trusted formula: follow the money. Mrs Darwin claimed that her husband, a former science teacher turned prison guard, had severe debts at the time of his disappearance. 'We had a lot of debt, in the tens of thousands,' she said.On 21 March 2002, Darwin took a red canoe out to sea in front of the family home and vanished. Mrs Darwin claimed she thought his death was real and that then 11 months later, there was a knock on her front door. It was her 'late' husband, wearing a beard, smelling badly and looking as if he had been living rough.After heated arguments, she agreed to keep quiet about his reappearance - and not even tell their sons, Mark, 31, and 29-year-old Anthony, that their father was alive. 'I suppose he didn't want them to turn him in,' she explained. 'He told me not to tell anyone he was back.'In April 2003, a hearing took place at Hartlepool County Court. Mrs Darwin persuaded the coroner to make an application to the Home Office to have her husband declared presumed dead without waiting the normal seven-year period. But because there was no body, the insurance company would only pay half the money - £25,000.The couple's sons returned from the inquest, mourning their father, little dreaming he was still alive. His wife claimed he used a small bedsit next door to the family home whenever guests called to visit the grieving 'widow'. But he spent most of the time living with his wife and sleeping in the same bed. He read books, watched television, surfed the net and did menial tasks around the house.Mrs Darwin said: 'He was used to being outdoors and was going stir crazy inside all the time. When he went out he would disguise himself, sometimes by taking a walking stick and walking with a limp. When it was cold, he would put on a woolly hat and pull his collar upwards.'She said that the worst aspect of the charade was lying to her sons: 'They used to look at newspapers and the internet and scour the reports of missing persons and reports of bodies that were found. They were tortured.'And yes, it was hard to keep up the front. I so wanted to tell them, but I was in too deep. How could I possibly explain to them that I'd known their father was alive? Sometimes the boys would ring up wanting to talk about all manner of things and they would say, "If only dad was here to advise us". Sometimes John was sitting next to me and I would put the telephone on to loudspeaker so that he could hear them.'Last week the couple's sons disowned them, issuing a statement in which they spoke of their 'anger and confusion' at the revelations. 'How could our mam continue to let us believe our dad had died when he was very much alive? We have not spoken to either of our parents since our dad's arrest and at this present time we want no further contact with them.'Mark Darwin, it emerged, left his position at EC Harris, an international property consultants, the day before his father reappeared, having worked his notice. Anthony resigned from his insurance job with Towergate Risk Solutions in Reading in August. The brothers insisted that they were as keen as Cleveland police to find out where their father had been for the past five years.In 2004, according to Mrs Darwin, as the pretence took its toll, the Darwins decided to move abroad. Mrs Darwin claimed that her husband had already gone once to America to see a woman he had met on the internet.Mrs Darwin said the couple bought an apartment in Panama and she moved there seven weeks ago to join her husband. The couple reportedly bought land on the shore of Lake Gatun and planned to open an eco-tourist resort offering kayak trips. But Darwin could not forget his sons and yearned to see them again.He flew back to Britain and presented himself at a police station, saying that he could remember nothing of the previous five years. His sons were called to meet their father and eagerly telephoned Mrs Darwin with the news, handing him the phone so he could speak to his wife.'I suppose it was a bit stilted,' she said. 'I didn't think John was convincing. He said, "Hello Anne, is that really you, are you all right?" and I replied, "Yes, it's me, I'm OK, how are you?".'But their cover was apparently blown by the discovery of a photo on a Panamanian estate agency website showing a beaming Darwin looking fit and well next to his wife in July last year. It was found by a member of the public who put 'John, Anne and Panama' into the Google search engine and tipped off the police. The member of the public recalled: 'I rang police in Cleveland and the man on the other end said, "You're joking".'In the early hours of Wednesday, officers were banging on the door of Anthony Darwin's Hampshire home. His father was arrested and led away. His wife could also be soon be home and talking to the police.One newspaper claimed this weekend Darwin's first account to police was that he could not remember taking his canoe out to sea, 'and then coming to' months later and returning to Seaton Carew. According to that account, he discovered his wife had cashed in his life insurance policy, which he said the couple could not afford to pay back, so they came up with a plan for him to disappear again.A police source also told the Northern Echo that the recent revelations made reported sightings of Darwin since he disappeared more credible, saying: 'With the magic of hindsight, it is now possible to accept the accounts witnesses have given over the years, which were hard to believe at the time.'In a stark moment of realisation last week, Mrs Darwin said: 'I lied to them - my own sons. What sort of mother am I?' Still in custody and being questioned by detectives, her husband also has plenty of time to contemplate regrets. John Darwin's return from the dead led first to joy, then anger and bewilderment. He has lost not only his liberty but, it would appear, the sons he had longed to see again. It is, perhaps, a little death after all.Timeline200221 March John Darwin is seen paddling his canoe out to sea near the family home in Seaton Carew, Hartlepool.22 March Search for canoe starts. Its remains are found weeks later.2003February According to wife Anne, John turns up at the family home.April An open verdict is recorded at an inquest into John's death.2004November Darwins visit Cyprus. It is alleged he used a false passport.2006July The Darwins make their first visit to Panama to view properties.2007March They return to Panama and, in April, buy a £48,000 apartment.July Anne rejoins husband in Panama. They spend six weeks together.October Pair's home sells for £295,000. Anne rejoins John in Panama.30 November John flies back to the UK.1 December He goes to West End Central police station, London, and tells officers: 'I think I am a missing person.'2 December Sons Mark and Anthony are reunited with him at a police station.4 December Sons say their father has no memory of events since June 2000.5 December Police arrest John. Anne admits she knew her husband was alive.6 December Sons condemn parents.7 December Police ask magistrates for more time to question John.8 December Anne says John had lived with her for three years. She says he had 'had enough' of being dead and missed his sons, deciding to return to the UK.