One of the police chiefs in charge of national policy on firearms has said he would like a Star Trek-style phaser gun for officers which can "temporarily switch people's brains off".Ian Arundale, the assistant chief constable of West Mercia police and the head of the Association of Chief Police Officers' (Acpo) use of firearms unit, said the phaser would be an ideal type of "less-lethal" weapon. "What we would like in the future is a Star Trek-style phaser that, perfectly safely, temporarily switches someone's brain off so that officers move in," he told Jane's Police Review Magazine. "We know we are not going to get that, probably not in my lifetime anyway, but we will look at anything that takes us in that direction." According to the official Star Trek website, a phaser gun is a "handheld energy weapon in use since circa 2266." The phaser type 1 was commonly used when a show of force was not appropriate, such as in first contact and other missions on planets where a more diplomatic approach was required. It can be adjusted to various settings including "stun, heat, disrupt and overload". Presumably, Mr Arundale does not have the type 4 phaser in mind, a medium-sized version that could be attached to vehicles, or the type 5 a starship-mounted weapon. At present the closest weapon police have to the phaser is the taser, which is on trial in five forces. It fires a two-pronged dart that over rides the central nervous system and causes muscle contractions. The spasms nearly always cause targets to curl into a foetal position. But the weapon has been criticised by human rights groups and is on the list of goods that British firms are banned from exporting. Amnesty International has called for the guns, which fire darts that can deliver a 50,000-volt electric shock, to undergo full medical trials before being deployed. Mr Arundale also said Acpo is looking at two alternatives to the plastic baton round, another "less-lethal" weapon in use in the UK that fires circular plastic rounds capable of knocking down a person from 25 metres when aimed at the stomach but with the potential to kill if fired at the head and upper body. Two alternatives are the "attenuating energy projectile," a safer version of the baton round, and the "discriminating irritant projectile" - pellets that explode to incapacitate the target with gas.