The schoolboy who murdered headteacher Philip Lawrence outside the gates of his north London school is facing deportation to Italy when he is released.Learco Chindamo, the then 15-year-old member of a street gang in north west London, was sentenced to serve at least 12 years in prison for killing Mr Lawrence in December 1995, and will become eligible for parole in early 2008.To the dismay of Mr Lawrence's widow, Frances, it emerged yesterday that the Home Office has written to Italian-born Chindamo in prison to warn him it is planning to apply for his deportation as soon as he is released.The department's decision is expected to lead to a legal battle. Chindamo's lawyers said they believed his deportation would be illegal as he has lived in the UK with his Philippines-born mother Paquita Torres since he was five. Chindamo has been a model prisoner, and was allowed out of an open prison on day release earlier this year.Mrs Lawrence, 58, would not comment yesterday on the proposal to deport him, but accused the department of again failing to keep her informed of its plans, and of ignoring the feelings and needs of victims of crime. "I am so cross with the government and the Home Office. It would have just taken one call. This is appalling," she said. "For all their talk of putting victims first, which I have supported, it seems nothing has changed."Mr Lawrence, 48, died in December 1995 from a stab wound to the heart as he tried to defend a 13-year-old pupil who was being attacked by Chindamo and several other boys outside St George's Roman Catholic comprehensive in Maida Vale. His murder led to a national debate on knife crime and the safety of teachers. It is understood the Home Office will argue that allowing Chindamo, an Italian passport holder, to remain in Britain after release would not be conducive to the public good. Chindamo is said to have behaved well in prison, but was part of a gang whose members were linked to other assaults in the mid-1990s.Those included the near-fatal stabbing of John Mills, husband of the then director of public prosecutions Barbara Mills, in 1995 by six gang members, and the gang rape by eight teenagers of an Austrian tourist on a canal footpath in 1997. Chindamo was not involved in those offences. He was said at an earlier appeal hearing to have made good progress in prison and to have rejected gang culture.Rules surrounding deportation of people from other European Union member states are complex. EU citizens can only be deported to another member country if they are deemed to pose a "genuine, present and sufficiently serious threat to the fundamental interests of society".This case is also sensitive because it will be a further test of the government's stance on foreign prisoners after the controversy over the Home Office's failure to consider hundreds of serious offenders for deportation.Chindamo has been given warning of the deportation proposal to allow him to prepare a legal case against the plan, but also to alert other agencies, including the immigration and prison services.Chindamo has already fought off an attempt in 2001 by the Home Office to deport him, which was blocked because it had been started too soon after his conviction in 1996. Earlier this year he was allowed to contest a Home Office decision to move him from Ford open prison to Blakenhurst category B prison.It is unclear whether Chindamo has any stable family base in Italy. His father, Massimo Chindamo, was jailed in Italy for 15 years in the early 1990s for hurling acid in a woman's face in a drugs dispute. His record includes convictions for assault, extortion, and arson.