Teenage girls are being forced into sexual slavery by violent criminal gangs operating under the cover of the Bollywood film and music business, a senior Scotland Yard officer has warned.The highly lucrative racket is part of an explosion of Asian organised crime which is rapidly becoming a major threat to law and order in London. Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur, head of Specialist Crime Operations at the Metropolitan Police and Britain's highest-ranking Asian police officer, told The Observer that the growth in Asian prostitution was part of a general expansion of the sex trade in London. 'We are seeing a significant increase in the number of saunas and brothels, partly as a response to a decline in street prostitution. A large proportion of the women involved originate from eastern Europe but we are increasingly becoming aware of prostitution rackets and human trafficking around music groups linked to the Indian and Pakistani film industry.'The sex slave trade revolves around a traditional form of Indian dance called mujra. Publicised almost entirely by word of mouth, performances take places after normal closing hours at a small number of venues in the heart of the Asian community. A typical show will involve up to 16 women, all wearing traditional costume, dancing one at a time on a stage area to the sound tracks of hit Bollywood films. The audience is exclusively male. The women are usually smuggled into the country on the pretext that they are involved in promotional work. Many have been lured away from their homes on the promise of well paid jobs as dancers or actresses and only learn the truth about what they are required to do when it is too late. Threats of violence are used to force them to co-operate. As the evening progresses, the girls come down from the stage and perform private dances for the men and offer them sexual services for between £75 and £100. All the money earned has to be passed back to the organisers and the top promoters are said to make profits of up to £10,000 per night. One regular attendee who asked not to be named told The Observer: 'There was always an element of suggestiveness in the mujra tradition - like all dance to some extent - but nowadays it's all sex and no art. Today going to a mujra is basically just like going to a brothel. Sometimes they do away with the dancing all together. The girls wear tight clothes, lots of make up and are very friendly. You are served drinks first, then the madam comes over asks you to pick out a girl that you like. She is then introduced to you and that's when you start to negotiate over the price.' Although murja parties have been taking place in London, Birmingham, Bradford and Leicester for many years, police knew nothing about them until they started investigating the murder of London businessman Tahir Butt. The wealthy restaurateur was found beaten and strangled in the burnt-out shell of his car in a country lane in Hertfordshire in 1999. Butt ostensibly made his money from a restaurant in Wembley but the police investigation soon revealed he was heavily involved in the murja scene. The day before his death he had supervised a performance by a 16-strong troupe of young dancers from Pakistan. Further investigation revealed that a rival promoter from Bradford had been trying to take over Butt's operation and that the two men had been involved in a heated row a few days earlier. Ultimately his death turned out to be unconnected to mujra. The married father-of-two was murdered on the orders of his long-term lover who had grown tired of him and fallen for someone new. But the information gathered about mujra during the course of the investigation has been fed back to the Specialist Crime desk and is adding to concerns about the growth of Asian organised crime.Traditionally, Asian communities have had a reputation for low crime rates and minimal levels of drug use but in the past year community leaders have voiced concerns about the the growth of violent youth gangs and rising incidents of heroin use. Asian protection racketeers are known to be preying on shopkeepers in many parts of east and west London and there has been a dramatic increase in levels of violence and the number of Asians involved in armed robberies. Earlier this year Southall-based brothers Sukhdev and Rajinder Bassi were jailed for a total of 20 years. Known as the 'Fiat Bravo Boys' after the modest cars they bought themselves to avoid drawing police attention, they arranged for rival drug dealers to be shot, planted a nail bomb at a busy west London pub and even shot dead an innocent bystander at a 21st birthday party. Relying on family loyalty to ensure police could not infiltrate their ranks, the gang earned around £6 million from heroin trafficking in the space of just three years. Despite the recovery of more than 400 kilos of heroin from Turkish syndicates, Ghaffur admits he still has a battle on his hands. 'The price of heroin on the streets has not changed so there seems to have been little interruption in the supply. We have had calls from both the Asian and the Turkish community to set up specific units to look the criminal element within, the way that Operation Trident does with black-on-black crime. There are no plans to extend the remit of Trident - it is a very strong brand and has been incredibly successful - but I won't rule out the introduction of similar initiatives for the other ethnic communities.'