It was a murder that proved to be the final straw for West Kilbride. In the late 1990s, residents of the once thriving north Ayrshire mill town were growing increasingly concerned about the decay and dereliction in their town centre. Unemployment was above average and out of 40 shops on the high street 21 were boarded up. Antisocial behaviour was commonplace and many of the 5,000 inhabitants avoided the town centre after dark.Then 27-year-old Yvette Wilson, on her way to a night out with friends, was murdered near the railway station by a convicted sex offender who had moved into the community. Her body was dumped and set alight.A town meeting was called. Unable to access grants from local authorities or enterprise groups, the locals took matters into their own hands. Tourism was flourishing elsewhere in Ayrshire, and with West Kilbride's history of weaving, they decided to rebrand the town as a craft and design centre, not just for small-scale hobbyists, but also highly skilled artisans who could give the town a profile and a sense of place.With the help of a local charitable trust, they started buying up the empty shops and turning them into studios to be leased to crafting businesses for a peppercorn rent. An environmental group was established and the town centre was spruced up; green spaces were set aside for wildflower meadows, a local quarry was earmarked for a wildlife reserve, and scores of hanging baskets were organised.Sixteen years on, and the distinctive brown VisitScotland tourist attraction signs point the way to West Kilbride, now the country's official Craft Town.The high street is bustling. There are eight studios housing a variety of craftspeople, many of them, like award-winning silversmith Marion Kane, with an international profile. Other independent retailers have moved in: a clockmaker, a high-end boutique, bookshops, sweetshops, and cafes. Only one shop is boarded up, and it has recently been sold and will soon be re-opening.In 2006, West Kilbride was named as the UK's Capital of Enterprise by the Department of Trade and Industry, lauded as an example of community-led regeneration. More recently, it was named as one Scotland's most creative places with a £100,000 prize. Later this Spring, the Barony Centre will open in the town, a refurbished church that will provide an exhibition space and focal point for the town's new industry.Maggie Broadley, West Kilbride's creative director, and an artist with her own ceramic business, says: A town centre is more than just a collection of shops, it's about people coming together. Back in 1996, the shops were boarded up and we had increased levels of vandalism. There was a real sense that after a certain time, you didn't come into the main street. There was a drop in confidence among the local people, their identity as a community. Often people would say that when friends or relatives would come to visit, they would bring them in the long way round in order that they wouldn't be driving through this really drab, depressing main street. Then, there was a single event that acted as a catalyst; the murder of a local girl. It was very, very distressing. If you like all this, in a way, is a memorial to her.Walking down the main street, Broadley says there is a fierce pride in the fact that the community transformed itself. A survey in 2007, she says, suggested that the crafting businesses were turning over up to £580,000 a year."There is a real spirit within West Kilbride, a real sense of achievement and collaboration which had been lost," says Broadley. "There is a strong sense of identity now. There is a real sense that we have worked together , and it's not just businesses and retailers, young people and families are coming to work and live here because this a real, vibrant community."In one of the gift shops, local volunteer Joyce Adam, 71, has just sold two paintings. "I first came here 52 years ago," she says. "It was a thriving wee town. There was everything in it then: shoe shops, furniture shops. Both my sons were butcher boys for the local butcher. But as time went by the shops closed up. It really was not an enamouring place to come to. The town centre didn't encourage people to be in the village. It was really pretty bad before the initiative started. It was very, very rundown."Further up the street, Cheryl Taylor, 35, has only recently opened her embroidery business in the town's Happyhills studio after taking redundancy from her job as a school careers advisor."It's the perfect set-up for a small business," she says. "We're from Kilmarnock, but there's not any support for small business there. Here, we get to share our skills with other people, learn from other people and establish ourselves with a shop front." With a fellow artists, Taylor has helped organise a community sewing group and is about to launch a schools project to get young people involved in designing their own labels.The town's success has attracted the interest of other communities, among them, Cumnock in Ayrshire, where barman Stuart Walker was murdered in October last year. Maggie Broadley is happy to encourage other communities to follow their lead. The West Kilbride project is still ongoing, she says, and there is still much to do. "We're at the stage now that we are the Craft Town," she says. "But we're also looking to the future and we're asking now, what comes next, what's the next big thing?"