The lord chief justice today sought to restore public confidence in the criminal justice system by defending his guidelines on the sentencing of non-aggravated burglary offences from "inaccurate" criticism.Last month, Lord Woolf advised trial judges that first-time, or even second-time, burglars should receive community sentences rather than prison terms if their offences did not involve violence or other aggravating features. His stance was later backed by the lord chancellor, Lord Irvine, who said community sentences were often better than prison in preventing people from re-offending.Both men were slated by critics as being soft on burglary. Today Lord Woolf rejected any suggestion that the criminal justice system was more concerned with criminals than their victims, and said he wanted to "correct inaccurate comments which are repeatedly being made as to the guidelines". He said in a statement: "It is stressed that, while the court intended that the number of offenders who would be sentenced to imprisonment should be reduced, this was only in the case of offences committed by non-persistent offenders and not where the number of offences indicated that the offender was a professional burglar." Lord Woolf and Lord Irvine have stressed that burglary remains a very serious offence and that if there were aggravating features, such as violence against the householder, a prison sentence would still be appropriate. Lord Woolf also said the starting point for a second-time domestic burglar committing an offence involving one of the high-level aggravating factors, such as the use of force or threats of violence against victims, should be a custodial sentence of three years. The statement read: "The court, in adopting this approach, was not, as has been suggested, acting inconsistently with its approach to street robbery offences, particularly those involving mobile telephones. As stated in the judgement, 'force used or threatened against the victim' is a high level aggravating factor. If violence is used or threatened, a community sentence for burglary is wholly inappropriate and a sentence of imprisonment is indicated.""It is a well-established approach to sentencing that an offender should only be sentenced to imprisonment when this is necessary and then for no longer than necessary," he said. Last month, Sir David Philips, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said he was alarmed by Lord Woolf's guidelines, saying they sent a "strange message" to would-be burglars. Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust and a former police officer, said the decision could lead to anarchy.Labour MP Graham Allen warned last month that taking away the threat of prison for burglary could send the message that "the first one is free". However, both the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, and the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, have welcomed Lord Woolf's guidelines. Mr Letwin called for greater government investment in drug treatment, and Mr Hughes agreed that prison was not the best answer for many burglars. Earlier this month, serial burglar Mark Patterson, 42, was spared jail and given an 18-month drug treatment and rehabilitation order - in line with Lord Woolf's guidelines. Patterson, of Deptford, south-east London, was a drug addict who told the court he wanted to be a poet. He had 31 previous convictions, including 11 appearances for burglary. Judge Goldstein, at the Old Bailey, said he had decided to give Patterson a chance, but the sentencing was criticised by the Victims of Crime Trust. Also this month, neighbours of another burglar who was spared jail criticised the decision. Gary Callaby, 29, of West Raynham, Norfolk, who admitted three burglaries and asked for another four to be taken into consideration, was given a 12-month drug treatment order at Norwich Crown Court. Judge Alasdair Darroch decided against a prison term in the light of Lord Woolf's guidelines, saying that first-time offenders could be dealt with by community sentencing.