Prison for most people is invisible. Because the vast majority of us never enter a prison, we rely on the media for information about life on the inside.According to the 2000 British crime survey (pdf), 75% of people get their information on the criminal justice system from the media, but only 6% consider it inaccurate. This limits the public's understanding of punishment. For most people, prison means Bad Girls, Sun headlines and The Shawshank Redemption. What the media say matters because it influences policy. The government must be seen to react to what's in the papers. Hence high-visibility community sentences, proposals to visit knife crime victims, and curfews (pdf) for young people. The traditional elite policymaking from Whitehall has been rebalanced to reflect public opinion. Perceived electoral advantage is championed over penal effectiveness.But are ministers reacting to public opinion or a media construction of that opinion? Is the government really reacting to the people, or to the headlines? Research (pdf) demonstrates that the public is less punitive than the media would have us believe. We are talking, then, about a discrepancy between actual opinion and media-constructed opinion.News reports on prison have to fit newspapers' agendas and their readership's needs. Violent and sexual crimes are consistently over-reported, creating a demand for more draconian criminal justice measures and in particular the increased use of prison. Incarceration is not recognised as a fiasco but seen as necessary. Prison is conceived as the jewel in the criminal justice crown. The print media are not monolithic. The Guardian and the Independent both offer some criticism of prison and its effectiveness. For the most part, however, the print media – tabloids and broadsheets alike – express overt support for prisons, criticising the government for not being "tough enough" on criminals and overemphasising the risk prisoners pose to society. The public are warned of the "early release" of prisoners while praise is lavished on Titan prisons.The language of prison reporting is largely simplified, polarised and exaggerated. Prisoners are reduced to stereotypes, the bogeymen of the 21st century – the rapist, the child murderer, the paedophile. This dehumanising of prisoners emphasises fear, danger and risk and bolsters an agenda promoting the necessity of prisons. So who talks about prison in these reports? One group regularly used is the Victims of Crime Trust, a pressure group devoted to murder victims' families. It consists of just three permanent members, yet in the last two years, its chairman Norman Brennan has been quoted on prison issues 304 times. This contrasts with the media profile of Paul Cavadino, the head of Nacro – the national crime reduction charity, which helps 60,000 people each year – who has been quoted just 52 times. Present news coverage means that prison is legitimised, normalised and taken for granted by the public. News reports persuade, manipulate and misinform. They contribute towards a growth in penal populism, driven not democratically by the people, but constructed by the media.