European card fraud losses reached a new high in 2013, with the UK and France suffering 62% of the total losses of the 19 countries analysed.Using data provided by Euromonitor, the Fico evolution of fraud map attempts to paint a picture of the ‘fraud landscape’ across Europe, in particular the change between 2006 and 2013. According to the latest data European card fraud losses hit €1.55bn last year – up by 6.2% between 2012 and 2013.The UK and France made up 62% of the total fraud losses for the 19 countries covered by the fraud map. Adding Germany, Russia and Spain, the five countries add up to 80% of the total losses.Martin Warwick, a principal fraud consultant at Fico says: When fraud losses peaked in 2008, UK issuers sharply reduced card fraud through fraud analytics and the introduction of chip and PIN. However, criminals have been adapting – pickpocketing after watching consumers input their PIN, or calling cardholders and purporting to be part of a bank’s fraud team, when actually they are stealing card details.Meanwhile in France, chip and PIN has been used for so long that criminals have completely changed their approach and reverted to ID theft, which accounted for 66% of French fraud losses in 2013. Its growth has been quite staggering – losses due to ID theft grew from €7.6m in 2006 to €284m in 2013Card fraud losses totalled €535m (£450m) in the UK in 2013 - up 16% on 2012. The UK is followed by France where card fraud losses reached €429m. The data shows that Russia saw the fastest year-on-year growth in card fraud - up by 28% between 2012 and 2013. Fraud losses are often measured by the card industry in terms of ‘basis points’. This means 100 basis points is equivalent to 1% of card sales. A level of five or less indicates a relatively low threat from card fraud whereas a basis points level between five and 10 signifies quite active card fraud. Above 10 marks a significant fraud severity, requiring immediate attention. The chart below shows how each country fares on the scale.As the chart shows, France had the highest ratio of fraud losses to card sales at 7.4 basis points.‘Fraud is like a balloon – squeeze it in one place and it bulges somewhere else’Fraud, explain Fico, is “like a ballon - squeeze it in one place and it bulges somewhere else”. What they mean by this is that criminals are “constantly testing” to see which countries and issuers lack sophisticated fraud prevention. It’s important to be as strong as your European neighbours at fighting fraud, explain Fico.Methodology  Euromonitor International’s consumer finance research process encompasses desk research, trade research, industry specialisation and company analysis. In conjunction with secondary source material, Euromonitor analysts engage with the industry via trade discussions. These discussions with all levels of the consumer finance ecosystem serve as a critical component as they provide inputs during early stage construction of estimates and —later in the process — market consensus on pre-publication figures. An internal audit apparatus screens the data at national, regional and global levels before publication on the Passport database.For ‘value lost to fraud’, analysts consult publicly available sources including — but not limited to — official sources (e.g., central banks) and trade press. Analysts may also utilize the trade discussion network for insight on fraud within a particular market. Euromonitor International does not conduct its own consumer survey as an element of its research of fraud. Inputs gleaned from initial primary and secondary review are synthesized and retested against market consensus during trade discussions.Download the data• Source: Fico using Euromonitor dataMore open dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianDevelopment and aid data• Search the world’s global development data with our gatewayCan you do more with this data?• Contact us at data@theguardian.com• Follow us on Twitter• Like us on Facebook