The face of Daniel Bartlam, the 15-year-old who murdered his own mother, has been splashed over the front pages of newspapers and our TV screens all week. Given the age of the defendant – who was 14 when he committed the crime, many will have been surprised by this: is it really wise to leave a teenager to the scrutiny of the public, however violent his crime might have been?Usually, young people on trial are granted a certain degree of anonymity. The criminal justice system treats witnesses and defendants below the age of 18 differently from adults: this includes withholding their identities from publication during the course of proceedings. The majority of crimes involving children and young people are tried in the youth court, where anonymity is automatic and requires good reason to be lifted. Only in the crown court, where the really serious crimes are tried, is anonymity not automatic but has to be applied for. In most cases, the courts recognise the immense damage that can be done to a young and still developing person by being branded a criminal while the trial is proceeding.They have good reason to do so. No matter how serious the allegation, the operation of the burden and standard of proof means the possibility of acquittal is a real one. It is hard enough for acquitted adults to clear their names in the so-called court of public opinion: we all remember Colin Stagg, for whom only the conviction of the real killer of Rachel Nickell finally dispelled the cloud of suspicion that had hung over him for years. It is much harder for a young person, lacking the inner strength that maturity brings, to return to his or her normal life and so it makes good sense for the court to strive to avoid this situation if possible.So was the court right to lift the order for Bartlam's anonymity? When application is made to lift such an order, the welfare of the young person must still be taken into account but the weight given to it changes after conviction, particularly in a serious case. On the other side of the scales, there is a legitimate public interest in knowing the outcome of proceedings in court.Generally speaking, courts tend to take the view that there is a potential deterrent effect in naming and shaming young people found guilty of serious crimes. This view is of a piece with the widespread opinion, held not only by the courts but by successive governments and large swaths of public opinion, that heavy sentences have a deterrent effect.But there is considerable academic debate about whether deterrence is a legitimate sentencing goal and whether, even if it is, there is any evidence to show it is effective. The late Linda Smith once quipped that we shouldn't knock asbos as they are often the only qualification some kids get. In the same way, some young people convicted of serious crimes wear their notoriety as a badge of pride, something that gives them street cred among their peers.The Daniel Bartlam case was truly appalling. The murder of his own mother and the attempts to cover it up were gruesome enough, but what makes it especially chilling is that it was committed by someone so young and still so dependent on his mother. It is a shocking story and as is often the way in cases such as this, there will be much pontificating about video violence, single parents and what this tells us about broken Britain.Yet it is difficult to see any evidence that lifting anonymity in cases like this will achieve its stated goal of deterrence. Worse, in view of the outpouring of invective, there is an argument that the need for anonymity is even greater after conviction than before. Ironically, it is sometimes the continuing publicity around very young defendants that makes it necessary for them to apply for a lifetime anonymity injunction once they have been released – the so-called "Mary Bell orders".Daniel Bartlam received a life sentence with a recommendation of 16 years. If he is rehabilitated afterwards – and that is what all must hope – he will be released on licence. Lifting Bartlam's anonymity will have been counterproductive if it makes it impossible for him to live a normal life and take his place again as a law-abiding member of society.• Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree