A celebrated Liverpool nightclub faces permanent closure after being stormed on Thursday night by 140 police officers following a months-long investigation into the alleged dealing of class A drugs.Merseyside police have applied for a closure order for the club, Garlands – one of Liverpool’s largest and longest-running venues popular with footballers, students and the LGBT community. A court hearing was due to place take on Friday in an attempt to permanently shut it down.Detectives searching three floors of the club said large quantities of drugs were found on the premises, after about 300 revellers were evicted from the venue shortly after midnight during its busiest weeknight event, Gossip.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Police discuss the raidTwo men aged 19 and 20 from the West Derby and Birkenhead areas were arrested on the premises on suspicion of supplying controlled drugs.In a statement released to the Guardian, Merseyside police said they had “no option” but to raid the club. Ch Supt Jon Ward said: “Sadly, we have been given no option but to take positive action at this premises this evening following an extensive operation.“Over the last few months officers have found that class A drugs and other substances were being dealt openly within the premises.”RadioCity News/Sport (@RadioCityNews)140 officers have stormed Garlands nightclub on a drugs raid. pic.twitter.com/BUtBgDI8ecFebruary 13, 2015Before the raid, Merseyside police had sent a series of tweets on carrying out a warrant to search the premises, and the raid itself.Merseyside Police (@MerseyPolice)Merseyside Police has just executed a warrant at Garlands nightclub in Eberle St Liverpool. More to follow.February 13, 2015Merseyside Police (@MerseyPolice)Garlands nightclub is being cleared by Merseyside Police while a search operation is carried out.February 13, 2015Merseyside Police (@MerseyPolice)Garlands has now been closed by Merseyside Police following an investigation into drugs supply. A court hearing will take place later today.February 13, 2015Garlands, located on Erbe street in Liverpool’s city centre, is one of the country’s biggest gay-friendly nightclubs. It is popular with celebrities and has become something of a rite of passage for students. Opening in 1993, it made its reputation with its brash style – with rooms called the Boudoir and Bedlam – attracting a large gay following and fashion crowd in the era of the superclub.Alexander McQueen’s mentor and fashion icon Isabella Blow once used the club as the location for one of her fashion shoots for Tatler.“Garlands” was trending on Twitter last night as users reacted to the raid.James Forshaw (@jamesforsh13)What a sad day 😭 #garlandsFebruary 13, 2015Jasmine Blanche (@JasmineBlanche)Actually have some of my favourite memories in garlands... Would actually be sad to see it get shut downFebruary 13, 2015Chloe Millward (@chloemillward)As much as I have a love hate relationship with Garlands proper wish I went recently fml✋February 13, 2015Alisha Rouse (@AlishaRouse)People bringing brought out of Garlands. A lot of anger here from staff. https://t.co/34xE8oqBlZFebruary 13, 2015Garlands previously made headlines when Queens Park Rangers footballer Joey Barton was headbutted outside the venue.Garlands nightclub did not respond to requests for comment.