Women MPs are to launch an attack on the 'no means yes' culture of rape cases, demanding safeguards to prevent men falsely claiming that their victims were willing to have sex.The Home Office is already considering a shake-up of the law governing consent to sex, around which many 'date rape' cases, in which the woman knows her attacker revolve. But Labour women MPs are seeking to drum up public support for radical reforms amid fears that the plans could be watered down in the face of strong opposition. Controversy has been stirred by cases like that of the Australian snooker star Quinten Hann, who was last week cleared of rape after a jury heard that his supposed victim had programmed her phone number into his mobile phone and arranged to meet him for lunch after they had sex. The female student admitted getting drunk, going to Hann's hotel room and sitting astride him when he was naked, but claimed she had said no to sex because she felt guilty about her boyfriend. Hann's lawyer, Ivan Lawrence, told the jury that 'sometimes in the heat of passion when a woman says no, she doesn't necessarily mean no'. Although Home Secretary David Blunkett has now secured a slot in this autumn's Queen's Speech for a shake-up of sex offences legislation, Ministers are still drafting their proposals on reforming rape law. Julia Drown, MP for Swindon, will attempt to launch a debate on reform later this month with a backbench Bill, calling for a duty on male defendants, who claim that the woman was a willing partner, to prove they had made all reasonable efforts to check she really did 'freely agree' to sex. Judges would also be forced to direct juries that there are certain circumstances under which consent cannot be a defence - which could include the woman being drunk, unconscious, threatened with force or intimidated. 'I want to put down the marker that this is what we should be doing, saying that we should change to the Canadian model which is one of free agreement; that means reasonable steps having been taken,' said Drown. 'We need to make sure we have the public and women's organisations on side.' Critics will argue that could turn every sexual encounter into a negotiating minefield, with men having to ask permission every step of the way. But campaigners argue that too many men have been getting away with convincing juries that simply because a woman was flirting with them, 'no' could really mean 'yes'. Drown's 10-minute rule Bill, which gets its first reading on 16 July, has no real chance of becoming law but will be used by backbenchers to put pressure on the Home Office not to retreat. Ministers are worried about the falling rate of rape convictions, with fewer than eight per cent of reported cases now ending up in a conviction compared to a third in the mid-Seventies.