When Ray Rock walked out of London's court of appeal on Thursday last week, there were no reporters waiting for him. The former fork-lift truck driver had just spent six years in prison for violently shaking his girlfriend's baby to death, only to have his conviction quashed on appeal. His appeal was a test case that could see 89 other parents and carers accused of shaking babies having their convictions overturned: this was a legal turning point. But as it was, he walked free into media silence. It was the afternoon of July 21, and London had other things on its mind. The mother of the dead baby, Rock's ex-girlfriend, Lisa Davis, had left the court some time before, immediately after the verdict was announced, and before news had filtered through of the attempted bombings. Her anger did make it on to the news. "I am devastated," she told reporters. "What they are basically saying is that you can shake a baby and you will not get murder. But my Heidi suffered the worst injuries doctors had seen. This man has shown no remorse whatsoever. He has only done six years for killing my little baby." Rock, 35, remains a convicted child-killer: much to his regret, the appeal court only reduced his murder conviction to manslaughter. But, for the record, this is his side of the story. "I feel desperately sorry for Lisa. I know she still hates me, and cannot understand why I am at liberty," he says. "I know that I was in charge of her baby when she died. But that does not mean I deliberately meant to harm baby Heidi in any way whatsoever - let alone kill her." Rock's remaining manslaughter conviction fills many with unease. New science, developed after his trial in 1999, questions the entire basis of Shaken Baby Syndrome (SBS) - the syndrome that did for Rock and, in 1997, saw British nanny Louise Woodward convicted of killing a baby in America. In the absence of witnesses, the logic of the prosecution case against Rock, as in so many other cases of this sort, is that he must have violently shaken Heidi because she suffered the three classic symptoms of SBS - bleeds over the brain and in the back of the eyes, and a swollen brain. But experts such as consultant neuropathologist Jennian Geddes, formerly of the Royal London, now say there is no must, and the appeal court chose to believe them: "We do not think it possible to find that it must automatically and necessarily lead to a diagnosis," the judges said last week. Nevertheless, they found that Rock, originally from Great Yarmouth in Norfolk, was still guilty of manslaughter. Justice has been done - but, perhaps, only up to a point. I, for one, find Rock's story of a tragic accident compelling. He is a big man, like his father, Brian, who died in February. But he gets his gentleness and sunny disposition from his Argentinian mother, Linda. Heidi sustained her injuries one summer evening in June, 1998 at home in Great Yarmouth. Lisa was out. The crown says that Rock was watching the X-Files and was angered by her cries. He went upstairs, shook her viciously, and caused her brain to bleed, leading to her death. He remembers things very differently. "I was watching a video," he says. "No need to get angry about anything: I could always rewind. I loved Heidi and I loved looking after her. There was a baby mobile with shiny lights that often helped soothe her. She was still crying as I was trying to wind it up. I was cack-handed, holding the baby in my right arm, and trying to turn the mobile with my left and she fell, straight down on her bottom. She had fallen badly - on the base of spine. There was a carpet but it was thin. "I picked her up. She wasn't breathing at all. I felt panic rising in me but I fought it. I'm a calm person, and I never once lost control. I carried on hoping and praying that she would snap out of it and draw breath." Rock has admitted that, after the accident, he did shake Heidi - so is he a killer? "No, not at all. The lawyer in the Louise Woodward case did this crazy thing when he shook an imaginary baby for two minutes. It wasn't like that. I just shook her ever so gently, as if trying to wake her up. The idea that I would have violently shaken her is so untrue. I would never have hurt her - ever." He shook her - but she still wasn't breathing. "Her colour hadn't gone at that stage but the muscles in her face were contorted, strange, somehow frozen. It was as if something inside her had switched off." Rock rang 999. They went to the wrong address. When the finally arrived, they cleared Heidi's airway, and gave her oxygen. She trembled back into life, a little, so there was some hope at last. At the hospital, the doctors began treatment. Lisa arrived and hugged him. At this stage, before the "proof" emerged that Rock must have violently shaken Heidi, Lisa believed in Rock. The accident happened on Tuesday, June 2 1998. They switched the life support off on the Friday. Heidi was brain dead. On the Monday, police arrested Rock. "I couldn't believe this was happening," he says. "And yet it was." Rock could feel Lisa slipping away from him. The doctors had found, so they thought, the tell-tale injuries of SBS. "I'm not saying that the police acted improperly towards me. But, to me, it felt as though their whole mental framework was based on the fact that I was guilty. To me, it seemed that they thought that I was lying through my teeth. There was no way out, no way I could get through to them." From the moment Rock walked into court he knew, he says, that he was damned: "I was a child-killer. You know the jury are thinking that this man must be a monster. It felt like the same mind-set I thought that the police had: 'You are sick, you are evil, you are twisted, you did it.'" Seven experts gave evidence in his trial, which started in September 1999, at Chelmsford crown court. They were all for the prosecution. The experts said Rock must have shaken Heidi violently; one said the force he used must have been the same as that in a high-speed car crash. One said they had never seen injuries as severe as Heidi's in his whole career. "If I had been on the jury I would have convicted myself," says Rock. He got mandatory life for murder, which meant at least 10 years. Inside, he suffered more than a loss of freedom. One afternoon, a year into his sentence, some men came for him. He was in his cell at Long Lartin prison. The door swung open and he thought it was an officer coming to check the cell. No words, no cries of "nonce" or "beast". He looked up and saw a white flash. They used a sock filled with snooker balls. He felt a torrent of blows. Two more men came in and hit him with something like a table leg. When they split his scalp open, the blood spurted like a fountain. He thought he was sweating and he put his hand up to wipe his face and he realised it was blood. He couldn't walk for a month and couldn't speak properly for weeks. When Rock was convicted, SBS was a fact. Enter Jennian Geddes, an expert in such matters. In 2004, I interviewed Geddes for BBC1's Real Story on Rock's case, and asked her: "Are you saying that you now believe that it is possible Raymond Rock is innocent?" She replied: "Yes." Geddes had compared the brains of babies who had been violently shaken in car crashes, to babies who had been allegedly shaken to death. She found that, unlike in crash victims, there was no axonal damage - no trauma to the inside of the brain - in baby Heidi. And the baby had no significant injury to the neck. This indicated she hadn't been shaken violently at all. And in fact some other doctors were now saying that babies and infants can die from falls from a very low height - exactly as Rock said had happened. The world was beginning to wake up to the possibility that medical experts could get it wrong. Sally Clark and Angela Cannings went to prison because they must have smothered their babies - so when they were freed in 2003, the doubts about the convictions of Rock and other "shakers" resonated. Alongside Rock's case, the appeal court last week quashed the manslaughter conviction against alleged baby-shaker Lorraine Harris and the grievous bodily harm conviction against Michael Faulder, but upheld manslaughter against Alan Cherry - a verdict he intends to challenge. For Rock, now starting a new life away from Great Yarmouth, the lonely fight to clear his name continues. "That beautiful baby had turned into a rag doll and it was my fault because I had dropped her. I am to blame. My clumsiness, my cack-handedness, my mistake. The reason she is no longer with us is me. And I will never, ever forgive myself for dropping her. But I didn't mean to do it. It was a terrible accident. I did not deliberately hurt that child. I only loved her. And I will go to my grave saying this: there was no crime. I am innocent of murder or manslaughter. And I never, ever meant to do anything other than care for and love that child. And I have spent six years in prison as a child-killer for a crime that never was." · John Sweeney is a reporter for the BBC.