Detectives investigating the murder of Damilola Taylor have issued an urgent appeal for a potentially key witness to come forward.The witness has already contacted police through the confidential Crimestoppers telephone service - but did not leave contact details. He or she - police are not even certain of the witness's gender - claims to have seen 10-year-old Damilola arguing with a group of youths just minutes before he was killed. The informant was visiting London at the time and made the new claim in a call to Crimestoppers in Scotland. Detective Superintendent David Dillnut said the caller claims to have seen Damilola near the Peckham leisure centre. "The person described seeing him with two black boys who were arguing with Damilola. A third youth was called over by the first two youths," said Det Supt Dillnut.According to Sky News, police know the identity of Damilola's killer and are attempting to assemble a case, pending new witnesses, before any arrests are made. Meanwhile, the inquiry team has released a 15-year-old boy on police bail, after arresting him in connection with the November 27 murder. He is the 13th suspect to be questioned. Police appeals for the anonymous informant and other witnesses to come forward were coupled with assurances that they would receive police protection. The appeals were echoed by Althea Smith, of the Southwark police and community consultative group. She made a moving plea for local people to remember Damilola's mother, Gloria. "Just imagine, three days to go to Christmas - how would you feel as a parent to feel you have lost someone who is so close to you? "Think about on Christmas morning how it will feel for Gloria to look under the Christmas tree at presents for Damilola, but there's no Damilola," she said. Related special reportsPolicing crime Related storiesThirteenth person arrested in Damilola case 18 December: Damilola parents slam Hague 15 December: Police in Damilola murder case arrest 11 youths 13 December: Police in Damilola case make appeal to youths11 December: Second post-mortem to be carried out on Damilola8 December: Thousand gather to mourn Damilola2 December: Father tells of bitterness and lossFirst report: Death of a schoolboyThe CCTV shotsUseful linksMetropolitan PoliceLondon Borough of SouthwarkSouth London online