Detectives searching for a missing mother-of-four who is thought to have been murdered have released CCTV footage of her visiting a sweet shop on the day she vanished.Samantha Henderson, 25, has not been seen since she left her home in the Dorset village of Corfe Castle on Wednesday afternoon. A 27-year-old man known to Henderson has been arrested on suspicion of her murder and remains in custody.The last confirmed reported sighting of Ms Henderson, whose children are aged one to six, was at around 3pm outside Corfe Castle primary school in East Street. At 11.41am that day she was captured on a CCTV camera in The Sweet Shop in The Square in the village. She was wearing a pink jumper or coat and light blue jeans. She had her long blonde hair up in a ponytail.DI Neil Devoto, who is leading the inquiry, said: “We have not found Samantha yet and are gravely concerned about her, fearing that she may have come to some harm. We are releasing this CCTV footage taken on Wednesday morning, which is day she was last seen.“I am urging anyone who may have information about what happened to Samantha or who saw her after 3pm on Wednesday to please get in contact with Dorset Police.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A photo of Samantha Henderson, 25, who has not been seen since she left her address in Corfe Castle, Dorset, on Wednesday afternoon. Photograph: Dorset Police/PAPolice have seized Ms Henderson’s blue Peugeot 307 estate car from her home and said they are keen for any information about its movements between 3pm on Wednesday and 5pm on Friday.Devoto continued: “I am very keen to hear from anyone who may have travelled along the A351 and in the Corfe Castle area between 3pm on 21 January and 5pm on 23 January and captured their journey on CCTV or cameras in their cabs, cars or on their motorbike or bicycle helmets. This footage may be very useful to my investigation and I urge you to call me.”Extensive investigations are ongoing, including forensic experts examining Ms Henderson’s home address in Corfe Castle. Searches are also being carried out in the Corfe Castle village area. Police have also been searching woodland around two miles from the village, which is famous for its atmospheric ruined castle.Devoto added: “Our search for Samantha is continuing and we are desperate for any information about her whereabouts.Samantha’s disappearance is completely out of character as she has never gone missing before leaving her four young children who are aged one, two, four and six.“We urgently want to hear from anyone who has seen Samantha after 3pm on 21 January, had contact with her whether by phone or social media or has any information of her whereabouts. We are keeping an open mind about what may have happened to Samantha but are fearing the worst.”Ms Henderson is described as white, 1.6m (5ft 3in) tall, of a very slim build and with long blonde hair.Over the weekend, Ms Henderson’s family issued a statement pleading for her to come home.They said: “Sam is a homely, private, loving mother of four children aged six, four, two and one. She is hard working, always presentable and this is completely out of character for her. She would never walk out and leave her children. If anyone knows where she is or what has happened, please contact the police.”