The Leicestershire village of Rothley, to which Kate and Gerry McCann returned home yesterday from Portugal, offered unqualified emotional support to the grieving family."Thank goodness. They're back where they belong; it's the best place they could possibly be," said one young mother watching the local cricket match.She said she was sure of the couple's innocence. "It doesn't bear thinking about, does it. And at the end of the day, the little girl still hasn't been found. That's the most heart-breaking thing of all."Mr McCann's sister Philomena, 43, said the family had been worried about their how return to England would be interpreted. "Gerry is saying he doesn't want it to look like they are running scared," she said. "He doesn't want it too look as if they are running away, because that is nonsense."Bur Rothley residents promised a warm welcome for the family and expressed their absolute conviction that the couple could not have been involved in the disappearance of the elder daughter, Madeleine."My every sense tells me that Rothley is just pleased and relieved to have them back," said Rev Mark Chandler, minister of the village's Baptist church whose regular banner saying 'We are here for you' has a particular relevance just now."So many people know them and their family. The Kennedys, for instance [Kate's uncle Brian and aunt Jenny, who live in Rothley], they're absolute pillars of this community. They do so much for the village and especially the churches."His welcome was echoed by Tracey Warburton, who was taking a walk in the village square, where yellow ribbons hang from the railings. She said: "It's such a relief. Gerry has this website with his blog and I've been sending them ever so many emails saying 'come back home, it's the best place for you to be'."Ms Warburton said she wrote a message saying: "Don't keep lingering out there in Portugal, even though I know you must want to be near the place where you last saw your little one. No one's angry with you here - we're reserving that for the Portuguese police."Despite their relief at having the McCanns back home, locals do not want a stop to the high-profile campaigning to find Madeleine. Rev Chandler said: "We want to get on with selling yellow ribbons (£1 each) to raise more money for the fund. There's another leaflet drop already arranged for this week."Later, a family friend who gave her name as Amanda, left the McCann home, saying; "It's just good to have them back. "We're going to rally round as much as we can, and whatever Kate and Gerry need, we'll be there for them."