A part-time musician with an interest in websites about violent sex murdered a teacher to satisfy his "macabre" fantasies, a court heard yesterday. Graham Coutts then hid the body of 31-year-old Jane Longhurst in a storage unit and visited "his trophy" regularly. He only moved the body when it began to smell and set fire to the remains in a wood in West Sussex, Lewes crown court, was told. In his opening speech John Kelsey-Fry, prosecuting, claimed Mr Coutts, 35, strangled Miss Longhurst with some tights in March last year. He said: "The crown alleges that having killed her and had his way with her, he did not dispose of her body but rather kept her somewhere known only to him for 11 days before moving her body to a storage unit hired in a false name." Mr Kelsey-Fry said Mr Coutts left the body at the storage unit for almost a month and visited it every few days until he was forced to move it. The prosecutor told the court Miss Longhurst had been an "attractive, talented and much-loved young lady". She worked as a music teacher at Uplands school, a special needs school in Brighton, and lived with her 34-year-old partner, Malcolm Sentance, in the seaside town. Both were accomplished violinists who played for the Brighton Youth Orchestra. Miss Longhurst had recently suggested that they get married and they had planned to go travelling and then set up home in Bath. Mr Kelsey-Fry said that on the day of the killing - which he said was March 14 - Miss Longhurst was on a routine day off. She was reported missing at midnight and a police search launched. Her body was found on April 19, when a member of the public saw something on fire in woods near Wiggonholt Common, Pulborough, near Arundel. The body was identified as that of Miss Longhurst by dental records. After Miss Longhurst's body was found, staff at the Big Yellow Storage Company (BYSC) in Brighton became suspicious. Mr Kelsey-Fry said that on March 25 a man calling himself Paul Kelly had called asking for a storage unit as quickly as possible. Later that day he arrived with a white box sealed with tape, claiming he had recently split from his girlfriend and wanted to store his personal belongings. The man was allowed direct access to the storage unit and was later given the go-ahead to enter the building out of hours using a pin number. Police viewed CCTV footage showing Mr Kelly's coming and goings and, said Mr Kelsey-Fry, realised the man was Mr Coutts. When officers opened Mr Coutts' unit they found Miss Longhurst's mobile phone and purse, a blood-stained rope and a shirt stained with her blood and Mr Coutts' semen. Mr Kelsey-Fry said the only reason Mr Coutts would have taken such a risk was to make several visits to fulfil fantasies concerning strangled women. Two of Mr Coutts' former girlfriends would give evidence that he enjoyed asphyxial sex and often used a pair of tights as a ligature, said Mr Kelsey-Fry. One claims he asked her to let him carry on until she passed out, but she refused. The prosecution said the defendant was a frequent viewer of violent pornography on the internet. Experts had investigated the hard-drives of two computers found at his home, and found that sites such as "Necrobabes", "Violent pleasure", and "Deathbyasphyxia" had been visited. Pictures and video clips of women being strangled and stripped naked were also found, Mr Kelsey-Fry said. "There is an obvious parallel between the images he chose to access on his computer and the scene that confronted him whenever he visited the BYSC. "The crown suggests that the murder of Jane Longhurst was a manifestation of the defendant's fixation with helpless and strangled women. "He acted out for real on the unfortunate Jane Longhurst the fantasies on his computer, the strangling, killing and raping of her. He subsequently kept and visited his trophy until the smell forced him to dispose of the body." The prosecutor said only Mr Coutts knew where he had kept the body after the killing and before moving it to the storage unit. Mr Sentance told the jury of his desperate search for Miss Longhurst. "In those weeks I did not sleep. I had no idea whether she was alive or dead, or if she was even in a shed being tortured." Mr Coutts, of Hove, denies murder. The trial continues.