I first met James when he came to us as an emergency placement on 6 June 2008. When I first saw him, my heart melted: he was 11 years old and absolutely tiny. He looked like a little angel. But he wasn't; he was the opposite.James came to us because he had been accused of trying to strangle the son of his permanent carers. He'd been there for less than two weeks, but after the alleged attack they had refused to take him back.It wasn't James's first foster placement to break down. He had been removed from his family less than 10 weeks previously, and three families had already found him impossible to cope with. Because he hadn't been in care for long, social services had not quite realised the true level of danger he represented to himself and to those around him. My partner and I only found out how dangerous he was after he had been living with us for a while. By that time it should have been obvious to me what a danger he was, but by then I had seen his vulnerable side and knew how hurt and scared he was beneath all the menace. My judgment had been clouded. To be honest, I might still be in denial six months later because, even today, I find it hard to believe he was capable of the awful crime he was later accused of.I had been a foster carer for just over a year when James came to us, and had worked for the council's mental health service for 10 years before that. But I wanted to help the teenagers who had been in the care system for a long time and had suffered serious trauma.I did every training course on offer. Central Bedfordshire council was brilliant: I studied attachment theory, behaviour management, the problems caused by drug and alcohol abuse, and how to work with sexually abused children. I even did a BTec in advanced fostering.Then James turned up.In no time at all, our lives were dominated by his uncontrollable behaviour. The chaos was relentless. He was utterly unparentable. Once, when he lost his temper, he grabbed a knife from the kitchen drawer and waved it around in a completely out-of-control way: I had to just leave him to it for my own safety. Another time, I found two enormous knives under his bed. He tried to feed slug pellets to my three-year-old grandson and attempted to scald me with burning fat. He would walk around the house, when he and I were alone together, wearing only his underpants.He had been excluded from every school in the area, but he would often leave the house in the morning and not come back until after dark. I had no idea where he was or what he was doing on those days. I know that once he threatened an older girl with a penknife and she beat him up.Looking back now, I see I should have felt more responsibility for the safety of my neighbours. He didn't know what empathy was. I was realistic enough to recognise that he was a danger to himself and to everyone he came into contact with, and so I was nervous about the young children who lived around us, but because I knew what a hurt, vulnerable side James possessed I wanted to believe that, deep down, he was a good lad.We soldiered on. I refused to reject James like everyone else in his life had done, but 10 months after he had come to live with us my neighbour of more than 20 years sold her house and moved away. She told me she couldn't live near him a day longer.Then, last July, James was accused of raping an 11-year-old local girl and forcing her to perform a sexual act on him. The girl told her school, who called the police and social services. By coincidence, I had told the council I wanted James removed from my care shortly before this all happened: I had finally realised that I had to choose between him and my family.The rape allegations were still being investigated after he left my care and I don't know what happened – you have to learn to switch off from these children when they move on, otherwise they dominate your life – but while, on the one hand, I don't believe he could have raped that girl, on the other, I also wouldn't put anything past him. I have been reading about this Doncaster case and my main thought is: "There but for the grace of God, goes James."What I do know is that, after I gave up on him, James was deemed to be "unplaceable" by social services. They put him in a children's home, where he remains. I don't know what sort of a future he has, though. There are children who are so badly traumatised that they are unhealable. I don't want to think that James is one of those children. But I fear he might be.All names have been changed.