The scientist who invented DNA fingerprinting, the genetic technique which has revolutionised the fight against crime, has condemned the government's plans to keep the DNA profiles of innocent people on its criminal database.In an interview with today's New Scientist magazine, Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys says it would be fairer for the police to take the DNA profiles of every Briton at birth than to mingle the fingerprints of the guilty with those of the innocent. "I'm totally opposed," he said. "It's discriminating, inconsistent with privacy laws and an example of ad hoc sloppy thinking." Prof Jeffreys, a researcher at the University of Leicester who announced the discovery of the genetic fingerprinting technique in 1985, said suspects who were cleared of any crime should have the right to remove their profiles from police databases. The police have pooled more than a million DNA samples from convicted criminals at a store near Birmingham, with 3,000 more arriving each day. That number is due to rise to 3.5m within three years. Most controversially, the criminal justice and police bill now going through parliament would allow the police to keep DNA samples from suspects who are later found to be innocent. Other geneticists told New Scientist of their concerns. David Balding, of the University of Reading, said: "It goes against fundamental principles of justice. If you're acquitted and found not guilty, you shouldn't have to pay any kind of penalty, no matter how small." The fears of scientists add to a chorus of dissent over the government's plans from civil liberties organisations. Lady Helena Kennedy, chairwoman of the government's genetics watchdog, the human genetics commission, warned last month that the proposal would create a class of people who were permanently under suspicion, even though they had never been convicted of any wrongdoing. "Being on a database of potential offenders which might be regularly trawled by the police means that... one is on a list of suspects and that surely very subtly alters the way in which the state sees, and we see, our fellow citizens," she said. DNA profiling is based on the discovery of a set of regions of human chromosomes where the same DNA sequence is repeated. The number of times the sequence is repeated varies from person to person. By analysing the number of repeats in several sequences, forensic geneticists can come up with a short string of numbers which identifies an individual. Forensic scientists check 10 sequences, reducing the chance of a mismatch to one in a billion - and, in theory, making it all but impossible that an innocent person's DNA from the database could be flagged up by a search. However, the reality is different. Often the crime scene sample of DNA is of poor quality, and sometimes only three or four sequences are available, greatly increasing the chances of a mistake. Defending the planned change, Ben Gunn, chief constable of Cambridgeshire police and the Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on forensic issues, said DNA profiling was the most significant forensic crimefighting advance since fingerprinting.