More than 2,500 mourners, hundreds of them dressed in the blue and red shirts of Liverpool's premiership clubs, today filled the city's Anglican cathedral for the funeral of 11-year-old Rhys Jones.Rhys' coffin, painted blue and adorned with the badge of his beloved Everton football club, arrived at the cathedral shortly before 2pm after a procession from his family home in Croxteth past the ground of his footballing heroes.Accompanied by around 100 family members, the cortege was met by mourners of all ages - some in push chairs, others helped by walking frames - who had been invited by Rhys's parents to take part in a service to celebrate his life. Rhys' parents, Melanie, 41, and Stephen, 44, asked mourners to dress in vibrant colours for the service, and the bright yellow of the Brazilian national strip as well as the green and white of Celtic were among the shirts on display.A boys' football team wearing black armbands and senior Everton players as well as Liverpool FC representatives, were among those who filed into the gothic cathedral built in the 1930s.Rhys was shot dead on August 22 while walking home from football practice in what police think may have been a case of mistaken identity. The coffin, carried by Rhys's father, dressed in an Everton strip, 17-year-old brother Owen and two other family members, was greeted by applause as it was carried down the aisle of the cathedral to the tune of the Everton anthem "Z Cars". The service began with the hymn "All Things Bright and beautiful". "Melanie, Stephen and Owen, in all the heartbreaking sadness of the last two weeks you, with Rhys, have become a beacon of light for our city," the Anglican bishop of Liverpool, the Rt Rev James Jones, said."Your love for Rhys, your dignity and your family life have shone out and restored hope and honour to our community shamed by such a crime. "You asked us to come in bright colours, even in football shirts, to celebrate the life and the light that sparkled out of Rhys. "Some might be surprised that you wanted the cathedral to be filled with brightness. Some might have thought that dark colours were more suitable for the deep sorrow that has filled the heart of a nation. "But you wanted the bright colours because they match the warmth and the fun that poured out of his young life, and from the one who always brought a smile to your face."Wearing a suit and football scarf, Rhys's uncle Neil Jones, told the congregation that Rhys would always be remembered for his "cheeky grin" which accompanied him during his "short and happy life".Alan Stubbs, the Everton defender, delivered a reading to the mourners, who included teachers and pupils from Rhys's former primary school, Broad Square. It is believed senior police officers, including detectives who have led the hunt for his killer, also attended.The 40-minute service ended with applause from inside the cathedral and the estimated 800 mourners outside, as Rhys was carried out to the waiting hearse to be taken to a private burial.Police say the strongest line of inquiry remains that Rhys was the accidental victim of a targeted attack against others. They have not ruled out a connection between the shooting and a local feud between two gangs.So far, 17 people have been arrested in connection with the murder. Twelve have been bailed pending further inquiries, and five were released without charge and are being treated as witnesses. 