The government, police and prosecutors tried to reassure householders yesterday that they had every right to defend themselves against burglars - even if they kill an intruder.The Crown Prosecution Service and the Association of Chief Police Officers issued new guidelines in a bid to dispel people's fears that they would end up in jail if they tackled burglars in their home. Ministers recently ruled out a change in the law as unnecessary, but public confusion over what constituted self-defence and reasonable force has prompted a high-profile campaign to clarify the existing law. The CPS insists householders are unlikely to find themselves in court, providing they do what they "honestly and instinctively believe is necessary in the heat of the moment," even if they use a weapon and seriously injure or kill the intruder. "As a general rule, the more extreme the circumstances and the fear felt, the more force you can lawfully use in self-defence," according to a new leaflet, available at Citizens' Advice Bureaux. The leaflet says that the law does not expect the householder to wait until they are attacked before using defensive force. Ken Macdonald QC, the director of public prosecutions, said there had been cases where householders had shot dead or fatally stabbed burglars or hit them over the head with baseball bats or metal bars and not been prosecuted. "If you are confronted by a burglar in your own home and you fear yourself and members of your family are about to be attacked, you are entitled to take action to incapacitate that burglar," he said. "The key thing to bear in mind is that, as long as someone hasn't stepped over that line into retribution or revenge, it is quite difficult to perceive of a level of violence that would not be regarded as reasonable by a prosecutor. "The law is on the side of the householder. We aim to reassure them if they act honestly and instinctively, this will be the strongest evidence that they have acted lawfully and in self-defence." What are unacceptable, however, are actions that belie premeditation, revenge or malice. Examples of these would be setting a trap to injure or kill an intruder or hurting someone further or killing them after you've already knocked them unconscious. You are allowed to use reasonable force to try to recover your property. Chasing someone down the street and felling them with a single blow or rugby tackle would be acceptable. Shooting or stabbing a fleeing burglar in the back would not. Mr Macdonald said only 11 householders had been prosecuted in the past 15 years, of whom five were convicted. The most notorious case was that of Norfolk farmer Tony Martin, jailed for life for shooting dead 16-year-old burglar Fred Barras in 1999. The murder conviction was reduced to manslaughter on appeal and Mr Martin was freed in July 2003. Another man who was convicted had lain in wait for a burglar on commercial premises in Cheshire, beat him up, threw him in a pit and set him on fire. Chris Fox, the president of ACPO, said that while the police had to investigate the circumstances if someone was killed or seriously injured, householders who tackled intruders would be generally dealt with sympathetically. He said cases were sometimes more complex than they first appeared, for example, when an apparent burglary turned out to be a fight between drug dealers. But he promised that straightforward cases would be dealt with swiftly and without arrests if possible in order to minimise distress to the householder. "We will always remember that anyone engaged in a criminal act should expect reasonable force to be used against them by the victim," he said. Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commis sioner, said: "The only person who should be afraid of the law is the intruder, unless the householder has used excessive and gratuitous force." Some of the debate was triggered by recent comments by outgoing commissioner, Sir John Stevens that people should be allowed to use whatever force was necessary against intruders. The Conservatives want a change in the law that would ensure householders were prosecuted only if they used "grossly disproportionate" force. The government argues this is a matter of semantics. Charles Clarke, the home secretary, said he believed that the current law backed the old adage that "an Englishman's home is his castle," although he accepted the need for the law to be made as clear as possible. But victims' groups are sceptical. Norman Brennan, director of the Victims of Crime Trust, said the guidelines leaflet was an "expensive public relations exercise."Mr Brennan added that the money would have been better spent on providing more frontline policing to protect the public from burglars in the first place. 'I could have killed him - but he was the guilty party'When he heard footsteps in his hall at 5.30am last summer the last thing Neil considered was whether he was legally allowed to tackle the burglar, writes Rosie Cowan. The 35-year-old writer, who asked not to give his full name, described what happened next: "I was lying in bed and I was terrified, but I was determined to defend myself and my property. "There was nothing to hand to grab so I went into the living room where my heart nearly stopped when I saw he'd grabbed my own hammer from my toolkit. "I screamed and he screamed that he was going to kill me. "You can never tell how you're going to react in that situation but suddenly my adrenaline took over. "We grappled for a few minutes but it seemed like forever, and he hit me on the shoulder. "Eventually he ran off, but I was scared there were others in the house. "When the police got there, I told them if I'd had a weapon I'd have felled the guy with it. "They told me I should count myself lucky I didn't or I could be up in court for assault, or he could have sued me if he'd tripped running out of my house. "At the time, the consequences never crossed my mind. "But I'm not sure this leaflet would reassure me. "In my case, the police didn't seem to know what they were doing and I still feel that the law protects the guilty. I've been off work for months and I've suffered severe mental stress ever since. "I realise now I could have been killed or I could have killed him, which would have been regrettable but he was the guilty party. "He broke into my home and in my view, he deserved anything that was coming to him. "You get paranoid and blaming yourself for not having more locks on doors. "I would still defend my home but I shouldn't have to. "The police should provide better security rather than putting the onus on the householder."