Sweeping new instant justice powers are to be given to the police to evict "neighbours from hell" and other antisocial residents as part of home secretary John Reid's law and order legislation to be unveiled in the Queen's speech today.Mr Reid said he wanted to give police the immediate power to close down premises being used for drunken parties, raves, brothels or other persistent antisocial activity, and to "move away from the traditional view that justice has to involve going to court".The new premises closure order will extend the current power to close down crack dens and enable police to order the immediate shutdown of any premises for between three to six months for a much wider range of antisocial activity, as long as they apply for a court order within 48 hours. The occupants will face eviction even if they own the premises. The police will be asked to liaise with social services to deal with those evicted as intentionally homeless. "Shutting them down would be a last resort. But it could be done within 48 hours," said Mr Reid.The Home Office also announced that ministers are likely to give police further instant justice powers including issuing immediate bans against antisocial individuals visiting town centres at night or other specific locations. Mr Reid acknowledged in his speech in Bristol yesterday that the government's renewed drive against antisocial behaviour was based on a concept of justice that many legal authorities might not recognise. "The problem we face is what I call the justice shortfall. That is, the difference - sometimes big - between what you and I think is justice, and what a lawyer or legal academic might think it is. My kind of justice is swift, effective and matches the crime," said the home secretary.His promise to bring in even tougher laws to curb antisocial behaviour came as the Home Office published research from the British Crime Survey showing that one in seven people report incidents involving noisy neighbours and more than one in four of them have considered moving to get away from the problem.The home secretary unveiled a battery of new police powers designed to deal with bad behaviour on the streets without having to go through the lengthy court process. The powers announced yesterday include:· A "suspended fine" imposed immediately on parents of children who breach three- to six-month "acceptable behaviour contracts". The 13,000 ABC contracts currently in force are voluntary.· The top rate for a wide range of police on the spot fines to be increased from £80 to £100.· Premises closure orders enabling properties at the centre of "serious and persistent antisocial behaviour" to be closed down for a set period regardless of whether they are privately or publicly owned.The powers are already used in Scotland, where 20 premises have been closed - 19 homes and one massage parlour.The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "What we need is not simply more predictable 'tough' talk from the home secretary but real action which makes a difference to people's everyday lives. The British public have long tired of John Reid's habit of talking tough but changing nothing."