Workmen at Brighton police station have uncovered a trove of evidence in a basement that could hold the key to a 35-year-old murder, it emerged yesterday.Most of the evidence, found three days ago during work on a sprinkler system, related to the murder of 12-year-old Keith Lyon, whose body was found on a bridle path in an area known as Happy Valley, between Ovingdean and Woodingdean, East Sussex, on May 6, 1967. Inside one of the boxes was the murder weapon - a white handled steak knife that was found days later in school grounds a mile away. The weapon was still stained with Keith Lyon's blood, and that of another person - possibly his killer. Other items discovered are believed to include a cigarette butt found at the murder scene, clothing, and a blood stained tissue, all of which may carry DNA that could lead police to the killer. Detectives are hoping modern forensic tests will shed new light on the inquiry, which at the time was one of the largest mounted in the UK. There have been numerous reviews of the case over the years, but police have been embarrassed and hampered by not having the missing evidence. Superintendent David Gaylor, of Brighton and Hove City CID, who began the latest review of the case 18 months ago, said the evidence had probably been put in the room, in the basement of Brighton police station, more than 20 years ago. It was locked and forgotten about until the workmen stumbled across it. "The one good thing is that it has been kept in pristine condition, and it has all been properly catalogued and stored, so hopefully there is a good chance any forensic evidence will have been preserved," he said. "I made a promise to Keith's mother, Valda, who is in her mid-80s, that we would come up with something. Now we have these exhibits there is a better chance that will happen, although obviously we have told the family not to expect too much." Forensic techniques can now be used to search for a DNA match from among the original suspects, who may be obliged to provide samples for DNA matching. Keith's father, bandleader Ken Lyon, put up a £1,000 reward, but died in 1991 without knowing who killed his son. The victim's brother, Peter, 42, has led the campaign to bring Keith's killer or killers to justice. "This is brilliant news - what we have been hoping for for a long time," he said. "I went to the police several years ago to try and get them to test for DNA, but they were very embarrassed when they could not find the evidence." Dressed in a white shirt, school tie, blue pullover and grey flannels, Keith was walking across the Downs to Woodingdean to buy a geometry set with his two shillings (10p) pocket money when he was stabbed 11 times in the chest and back. A wide investigation was made, with more than 17 schools visited, 2,000 children interviewed, 6,000 fingerprints taken, and 75,000 house-to-house calls made. There was talk of a strange woman - who was never traced - being seen near the scene of the murder. But eventually police suspicion focused on a group of local teenagers. It was thought Keith could have been stopped, asked to hand over his pocket money, and stabbed when he refused. The boys were taken in for questioning and held. The alibi of one failed to stand up. But then the teenagers were released and the investigation went quiet. When interviewed by the Guardian in 1996, one of the suspects denied any involvement, claiming the group had been with girls from a local school, who were too embarrassed to back up the alibi.