As I arrived in Enfield town centre, in north London, on Sunday night the first thing I saw was a Tesco's car park filled with police horses.It was 8pm, and police in riot gear had flooded the area, awaiting trouble – as were around 200 mainly young people nearby, some concealing their faces with scarves and balaclavas.A line of police encircled the train station, while others cordoned off nearby Church Street, where a police car had been smashed up and at least two shops broken into hours earlier.It quickly became apparent that St Andrews Road, opposite the station, was the pre-planned congregation point for those intent on trouble. Some in the crowd had knocked down walls, and were smashing bricks into smaller pieces against the floor to make them easier to throw at police.They were preparing for what would be the second night of trouble in London, although this time the disturbances would take on a very different character.On Saturday night in Tottenham and Wood Green a full-scale riot took place. The looting and damage to property was sustained and chaotic, and the police, often the target of an angry crowd that at times swelled to several hundred, were entirely overwhelmed.In contrast, what happened in Enfield and neighbouring suburbs on Sunday was not a riot. There was looting, but the mood was calmer: it felt premeditated.With no focal point of protest, the crowds were more fluid, directed by a combination of word of mouth, quiet gestures and BlackBerry text messages.Small, disparate groups of up 20 people, roamed the streets looking for unguarded shops.They moved quickly, sometimes in cars. But unlike in Tottenham the night before, where rioters confronted the police, the groups simply melted into backstreets at the first sign of police only to regroup minutes later.The Metropolitan police also had a new strategy: flood the streets. At times, entire main roads were blocked with queuing territorial support group vans and reinforcements from neighbouring forces.The incongruous sight of row upon row of riot police lining quiet terraced streets reminded me of pictures of the miners' strikes.The police had clearly learned to be more reactive, responding quickly to any sign of trouble. When a shop was being looted or a window smashed, they would run in, using batons and dogs to disperse the crowd.Shortly before 9pm, there was the first sign of trouble, and the crowd started moving on mass, sprinting east.I heard shouts of "G Mantella, G Mantella" – the name of a nearby jewellers. Within seconds, more than a dozen looters appeared to have broken in, rushing off in all directions as soon as the police vans arrived. Police sealed off the immediate area, while the crowd began attacking other shops at random, throwing rocks at police as they went.As in Tottenham the previous night, the makeup of the crowd reflected the local demographic. Young men were in the majority, although there were women, and some older people present too, but contrary to the reports I was hearing on the radio phone-ins, these were not "black youths": in Enfield, they were mostly white.Local residents peered in shock out of bedroom windows. Occasionally they would venture on to the street. As a group of people broke into a pharmacy, a woman aged around 20, in tears, shouted: "This is what you're doing for Mark? This is how you repay him?", referring to Mark Duggan who was shot dead by police on Thursday.Another resident told me police had six hours earlier warned him to expect his street to be on the "frontline".The police appeared to have accurate intelligence, and were waiting at the next pre-planned destination. Teenagers told me and my Guardian colleague Mustafa Khalili to head to Ponder's End and then, from midnight, to be in Edmonton.En route, we saw evidence of attempts to break into a retail park. A mile further west, past the A10, a Tesco Extra supermarket had also been broken into, around 10pm. It was closed, but workers had been inside stacking shelves. "The windows smashed and they just came pouring in from all four sides of the store," one worker told me. Another described teenagers filling trolleys with TVs and alcohol, before dashing out.After the Tesco store, groups headed south, down Hertford Road and Fore Street, and toward Edmonton. Shops that were targeted appeared to be either those that contained something of value – mobile phones, video games – or those that merely had easily smashable glass fronts. There appeared to be a preference for the high street chains, but other local, family-run businesses were also broken into.On the wall of Edmonton Working Men's Conservative Club I came across a young man who had been stabbed under the arm. He looked about 17 and was surrounded by tearful and panicking friends. Police medics were on the scene, but an angry confrontation ensued when a Forward Intelligence Team (FIT) officer arrived and began filming the teenagers with a camera.A number of the youths put their hoods up and disappeared into the darkness. Others waited for their friend to be put in the ambulance and then fled, shouting at police who had asked for information about how their friend was stabbed.Saying she could not talk "to FIT", one girl blew a kiss to her friend who was being walked to the ambulance. "God bless him, that's all I can say. God is going to look after him now." Another young women remonstrated more angrily with police. "Why do you think everything's going on? Because we fucking hate you."Within minutes, the young men and women were gone, leaving just the flashing sirens and a pavement splattered with blood.There was a nervy chaos an hour later in Edmonton, although the massive police presence that awaited the groups of youths prevented any sustained looting. A Royal Mail van was abandoned in the middle of the street. Fifty yards away, a car was in flames. The only TV camera crew I saw all night walked past; it comprised two cameramen and two burly bodyguards.The cat and mouse chase between police and looters continued into the early hours of the morning.In Dalston, seven miles south of Enfield, at around 3am I saw the familiar debris of smashed windows and stolen goods strewn across the floor. The looting, smaller in scale than elsewhere, had taken place earlier that night. Now the streets were lined with scores of police officers who had young men and women pinned up against the walls.There was systematic questioning of everyone in the area. "Don't argue," I heard one police officer say. "This is a routine stop and search."