A reward of £25,000 has been offered for information leading to the arrest of two suspects over the death of a man who died in a gun and grenade attack at his home. The body of David Short, 46, was found at his house in Clayton, Manchester, on 10 August after police responded to reports of gunfire.Less than 10 minutes after Short's body was discovered, Greater Manchester police received reports that shots had been fired at a property in Droylsden, where detectives say there was also a grenade blast. No one was injured.Short's son, amateur boxer Mark, 23, was killed in May when he was shot in the neck at a pub in Droylsden when a man walked in and opened fire. Three other men were shot in the attack and suffered leg and back injuries. Dale Cregan, 29, from Droylsden, and Anthony Wilkinson, 33, from Beswick, are wanted in connection with the two attacks last Friday. Cregan is also wanted over the murder of Mark Short.The reward is being offered for anyone giving information to Crimestoppers that leads to the arrest of Cregan and Wilkinson.Assistant Chief Constable Steve Heywood said: "Over the past week we have been carrying out a thorough and significant police investigation into the circumstances surrounding the murder of David Short. While we have been pursuing a number of lines of inquiry, we believe that there are people out there who have information that can help us trace Cregan and Wilkinson but are not helping us, for whatever reason."I want to reassure these people that they can call Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111, and I hope that the offer of a reward gives them an added incentive."A reward of this nature is rare for two reasons. Firstly, it is available only to those who call Crimestoppers. And it is a major development for a reward to be offered in relation to an arrest only. Crimestoppers will not pass your name to us, so we will never know it is you who has called us."If you recognise the images of Cregan, who has a black false eye, and Wilkinson, please get in touch as soon as possible."The north-west regional manager for Crimestoppers, Gary Murray, said: "The two individuals being sought are considered to be dangerous by police, and I would urge anyone with information on their whereabouts to contact Crimestoppers anonymously and not approach them."By passing information to Crimestoppers your anonymity is guaranteed. We won't ask for any of your personal details, you won't have to give a statement to the police and you won't have to go to court. All we want to know is what you know, not who you are."