At least until 3pm, when the narrow lanes suddenly throng with bullish 4x4 vehicles on the school run, the streets of Great Budworth in Cheshire are almost silent. A few couples enjoy a quiet half in the pub, at the top of the village street an elderly man weeds through his flower bed, but most of the low, leaded windows on the half-timbered chocolate-box houses are dark.Inside you can see televisions, videos and microwaves; no doubt there is a fair amount of jewellery tucked away in this affluent commuter village, 25 miles south of Manchester. But almost none of the cottages has a lock on its windows, and only a couple have burglar alarms. This is not a community, it seems, that lives in fear of crime. "I think people feel more secure in the country," says Jane Perry, 32, who lives in the nearby village of Marston but has come to Budworth for a quiet drink. "There's less opportunity to steal things." Her husband Danny, a builder, agrees that burglary is not much of a worry. "We have dogs, and we do lock everything, obviously, but in 10 years we have never had a problem in our house." The villagers of Great Budworth neatly illustrate the paradox in the way rural crime is perceived. They say they are surprised to learn that burglaries are falling in rural areas, that they would have thought crime was on the up. But then, come to think of it, they can't remember having any trouble themselves. Sue Scott's husband's family has lived in the village for decades. "I'm not too concerned," she says. "I feel that I'm rather protected here." She has never felt the need for an alarm on her home - her neighbours, after all, are watching the house if she is out. "We keep an eye on each others' homes. Everyone is close to their neighbours." But despite Great Budworth's picture-postcard appearance, all is not entirely idyllic. Break-ins may not concern the residents unduly but car crime, they agree, is more of a problem. Mrs Scott's car and that of her next-door neighbour were broken into last year. One man, sipping Guinness in the pub, admits that he came to the village partly to see if a man he suspects of breaking into his van is around. A local shopkeeper confesses to alarm about raids on his till. Mrs Scott's father-in-law, Alan, is tending her garden. At 80, he lives alone on a farm in nearby Frodsham, and keeps a double-barrelled shotgun in the house. "I bought it 20 years ago thinking that there might be problems with crime. It was just to scare people." He has never had to use it, but says: "It might come in handy some time, I suppose."