Suzanne BlamiresBlamires, who was often known by the street name of Amber, disappeared on Fridayafter being involved in an argument with a man close to her home in the Allerton district of Bradford, according to neighbours.The 36-year-old lived on a ground-floor housing association flat in Barkston Walk, just three streets from Shelley Armitage's home. She was reported missing on Saturday by her boyfriend, who lived with her and apparently encouraged her to work on the streets.Born and brought up in Bradford, she had a happy and idyllic childhood, with exotic holidays. But her life began to unravel when Blamires began using heroin in her 20s. In 2001, she was fined by magistrates after inadvertently propositioning a plainclothes police officer.As a child, she had everything to look forward to, according to a friend. The family enjoyed safari holidays in Africa "while everyone else was going to Blackpool," the friend said.She is described as feisty, spirited and a lovely woman.Shelley ArmitageArmitage, 31, disappeared a month ago. She was last seen on CCTV close to the Bradford city centre walking up and down Sunbridge Road shortly after 10.10pm on 26 April. She had left her flat, three hours earlier, with a friend and had eaten some food in City Road before moving towards Sunbridge Road and Rebecca Street to "go on the beat".She lived in Bentliffe Court in Allerton and knew Suzanne Blamires, who lived .Her boyfriend, Robert Preston, 36, reported her missing two days later. Following her disappearance, her mobile phone had not been used and she had not claimed any benefits. Armitage had problems with alcohol and drugs and had worked previously in Huddersfield.Last week, police began searching storage areas and bins close to where she was last seen. Her boyfriend was given a community order last week for driving while over the alcohol limit and assaulting a police officer.Her disappearance was particularly unusual as she had recently bought a puppy, which she adored, and she hated to be parted from her pet.Armitage has two children, one a 10-year-old daughter.Susan RushworthRushworth, the mother of three and a grandmother, has not been seen for almost a year. The 43-year-old was a heroin addict. Her family last saw her on Sunday 21 June last year, when she caught a bus home to Oak Villas, Manningham.She suffered from epilepsy. Although she was a sex worker, she was not thought to be working on the streets at the time of her death. The last known sighting of her was between midday and 1pm on Monday 22 June, walking from her bedsit towards Manningham Lane and Lister Park.She had been having treatment for her addiction, but had attempted to contact her drug dealer on the afternoon of her disappearance. Her mobile phone and bank account have not been used since then and there is no record that she took her epilepsy medication.Last Christmas, her children James, 24, and Kirsty, 21, made an appeal through a local newspaper to find her. "Somebody knows what has happened to our Mum," they said at the time. "We miss her so much."They said she had become involved in drugs six or seven years earlier after meeting the wrong man. "Without them [the drugs] she was just a normal person and a lovely, caring mother."Before her disappearance, she had been heroin-free for six weeks, but had been using again a fortnight earlier, after she became depressed following an epileptic fit. She also has a nine-year-old son, Arron, and three young grandchildren.