In the space of little over an hour, more than £50m was stolen from the Securitas depot in Tonbridge, Kent, in February last year. Now the jurors in the trial of those accused of carrying out Britain's largest cash robbery have been shown CCTV footage of how the robbery took place.The images show the depot manager, Colin Dixon, arriving at the depot's entrance with one of the robbers, who is dressed in police uniform. Mr Dixon has given evidence that earlier that night he had been kidnapped by men dressed as police officers and forced to help them gain entry to the depot as his wife and young child had also been taken hostage.Prosecuting counsel Sir John Nutting told the Old Bailey jury yesterday that the CCTV cameras at the depot were functioning at various vantage points on the night the robbery took place. According to the film that has been shown to the court, there were seven robbers. All were disguised by masks or balaclavas and all, apart from the man dressed as a police officer, were wearing overalls and gloves.The robbers were also shown to be carrying weapons which, Sir John said in his opening address, included a Skorpion machine pistol, a pump action shotgun, a handgun and a firearm similar to an AK47 assault rifle.Mr Dixon's arrival at the pedestrian entrance to the depot with the man dressed as a police officer did not immediately arouse suspicion among members of staff on duty that night. Some even thought that what was happening was a training exercise, the court heard. The main gate was opened so that the three vehicles containing the robbers could enter.The court heard that Gary Barclay, the Securitas employee who was working in the control room that night, was told by Mr Dixon: "Just do whatever the bloke says." Remembering that there was a poster on the control room wall which advised employees "Don't be a hero", Mr Barclay and the other members of staff did not resist. They were all tied up as the robbers moved through the depot. The jurors heard that the robbers already had a rough map of the premises.The video shows money, which was kept in "cages", being loaded by the robbers on to a seven and a half tonne Renault lorry. Black holdalls loaded with cash were also thrown into the lorry and a shopping trolley was used to carry bundles of notes in various denominations. While some of the robbers loaded the money, others kept an eye on the Securitas staff. About £150m was left behind.DestructionThe robbery lasted one hour and six minutes, and at 2.34am the lorry left with the cash and two of the robbers on board. As they departed from the depot, one of the robbers shouted out: "Come on, let's rock and roll!" The other five left less than 10 minutes later in a Vauxhall Vectra and a Volvo.Yesterday the court was also shown photos of Friningham Farm, where it is alleged that the cages from the depot were dumped and items connected to the robbery were taken for destruction. A shopping trolley was also found at the farm, the court heard.Car dealer John Fowler, 58, of Elderden Farm, Staplehurst, Kent; car salesman Stuart Royle, 48, of Maidstone, Kent; unemployed Jetmir Bucpapa, 26, of Tonbridge, Kent; roofer Lea Rusha, 35, of Southborough, Kent; hairdresser Michelle Hogg, 32, of Woolwich, south-east London; garage owner Roger Coutts, 30, of Welling, south-east London; and Emir Hysenaj, 27, a Post Office worker, of Crowborough, East Sussex, all plead not guilty to conspiracy to rob. They also deny conspiracy to kidnap Mr Dixon, his wife and their child, and conspiracy to possess firearms. Signwriter Keith Borer, 53, of Maidstone, Kent, denies handling stolen money.The trial continues.