Relatives of three teenage girls stabbed following an argument on a bus in Dorset earlier this week have today appealed for help in catching their attacker.Kirsty Edwards, 17, Charlotte Teague, 14, and 15-year-old Sophie Hyne suffered serious injuries when they were knifed after getting off the number 13 bus from Weymouth to Bridport on Wednesday evening.Dorset police - who described the attack as "sustained and frenzied" - said a 20-year-old man arrested yesterday in connection with the stabbings had been released without charge.Chief Inspector Nick Maton told a press conference he expected that somebody else would be arrested in connection with the stabbings. "Bridport is a very tight community, and there are people out there who know something," he said. Charlotte's mother, Michelle Teague, 39, her 57-year-old stepfather, Raymond Teague, along with Sophie's uncle Malcolm Derby, 30, and grandmother Anita Derby, appealed for information."If anybody knows anything out there, please don't be afraid to come forward, because he [the attacker] is still out there," Ms Teague said. "We don't want anyone else to go through what we've gone through." She added that the girls were "coping with it well". Charlotte suffered serious wounds to her chest and stomach, with the injuries having earlier been described as potentially life-threatening. Sophie was stabbed in the face and upper body, while Kirsty was wounded in the back and stomach.Both Charlotte and Sophie live in Bridport, a market town, while Kirsty is from Staffordshire.Mr Maton today said none of the injuries were now considered to be life-threatening, and that the three girls were in a stable condition in hospital.Police say the victims struck up a conversation with a man in his early 20s on the bus, but some kind of dispute followed. The man followed the girls off the bus in East Street and repeatedly stabbed them. At first, they thought they had been punched before seeing that they were bleeding.Passers-by stemmed the bleeding using their hands and towels that were brought out from nearby shops.Mr Maton told the press conference 40 police officers were hunting the attacker, who is described as white with dark hair, and was wearing a dark bomber-style jacket, dark tracksuit bottoms, a dark baseball cap and light-coloured trainers. He said police do not have a named suspect. They have had a brief conversation with the girls, and will interview them again when they have recovered more fully. The suspect is believed to be dangerous and still in possession of a short-bladed knife. Detectives have asked other passengers who were on the bus to come forward, and have also been studying footage from CCTV cameras in Bridport.