Travelling into central London in a crowded rush hour train the other evening I had my wallet lifted. It was the third time in 25 years that a thief had picked the same trouser pocket. Stay with me while I briefly refrain from trying to make sense of the coalition's cuts. This is a more positive little story.Covering the Philippine revolution in Manilla in 1986 I had been part of a great crowd trying to get into Ferdinand Marcos's presidential palace to inspect his wife Imelda's newly famous collection of shoes. I never got to see them because I felt my wallet go and wasted hours with the police after a witness – accomplice? – accused an innocent man of the theft.Fortunately, I'd already adopted the habit of hiding some of my credit cards and other valuables – notably my passport – at my hotel during foreign trips, so they would not all be lost if I was robbed. After losing my next wallet to a more creative pickpocket in Barcelona 10 years ago (he sprayed us with fake bird shit, then kindly "helped" to clean up with his bottle of drinking water), I took to carrying two cards (one my travelcard) and £20 in a mini-wallet in the other trouser pocket.So when I stepped off the packed Piccadilly line train at Green Park on Friday evening and immediately realised my pocket was lighter, my feeling was one of annoyance rather than panic. I'd have to cancel several cards, but had only lost – I think – a tenner. Small theft, few casualties.Here's where this gets a bit more interesting. The platform manager, who'd spotted me standing still and feeling my pockets, insisted that I come upstairs and report the incident. He gave me a Transport for London (TfL) "Lost it, reclaim it" form with a lost property phone number on it.I'd been going to see the Hungarian collection of paintings on show at the Royal Academy, so I sat in its courtyard under the watchful eye of Sir Joshua Reynolds's statue and, helped on the phone by my saintly wife, rang the card companies to cancel my plastic. You have to cancel cards in person. I even cancelled the cheque I thought I'd been carrying.Then I spoke to a nice young man at lost property who asked me a lot of questions about the theft, including my height, hair colour (ho ho), date of birth, religion and ethnicity. Slightly puzzling that, but he was disarmingly charming so I went along with most of it. It was, he said, being "allocated for investigation" by the crime management unit. I got a reference number.Life goes on. I swept into the RA. Ah, bugger, my membership card was in the wallet. It's out of date anyway, a young woman told me. I resubscribed using my card from the other pocket.Around noon the next day I took a phone call on my mobile. A voice I didn't recognise, speaking poor English, said he'd found my wallet on a Piccadilly line platform four stations east at Holborn. Would I like to collect it?His name was Milo, a Slovak working in the kitchen of a City branch of the popular Wagamama pan-Asian restaurant chain. He told me his shifts and I promised to drop by. I duly turned up on my bike. "He's a nice guy," said the manager when I explained my purpose. Milo produced the wallet. Colleagues crowded round. He refused the £20 I offered him by way of thanks, so I gave it to someone else to make sure he took it later.A good story then? I thought so. Good old London! The same thing happened about five years ago after my new mobile phone slipped out of a pocket on the tube. Someone found it, discovered I'd taped my home number on the battery and rang. Another £20 reluctantly accepted when we met up."It happens more than we think, Dad," one of my sons said over my birthday meal last night. He sent me this excellent story of the professor whose laptop was pinched: the thief kept the hardware but returned the laptop's contents on a USB memory stick.When I examined the wallet only the tenner seemed to be missing. Those cancelled credit cards were there (damn). So was my driving licence, RA card, Tate, National Trust, NUJ, NHS etc, along with cherished family photos – though curiously not my dry cleaning ticket. Memo to self: look out for shifty-looking pickpocket wearing wrong-size grey trousers, but don't bother looking in the Royal Academy; he's not interested. (The stolen RA card wasn't out of date, actually, so I must demand a rebate.)But it doesn't quite end there. Midweek I got a nice letter from the British transport police, clocking my "incident" and assuring me that it would be investigated. "We understand the seriousness of the situation."Ah, but do they? When I got the follow-up phone call from a very jolly man indeed I was able to say that I'd got my wallet back and he could call off the crime management unit. We had a nice chat; he was sympathetic and admitted that he's always telling people to split their cards between two pockets but doesn't actually do it himself, not yet, though he intends to.What worried me in an era of cuts and overstretched services is that the theft of my wallet was a trivial offence, more annoying for its inconvenience than anything else. I even got most of my stuff back.Everyone was courteous and the process worked. Yet it must have taken up an hour or so of valuable BTP time, writing that pro-forma letter, logging the offence, phoning me.I can see that such a procedure would be appropriate to many offences on the London Underground – or any public transport system where people get seriously robbed, attacked and frightened. On 7/7, 52 passengers were murdered by sad adolescent fanatics with silly ideas and homemade bombs. Awful.I have no wish to sound ungracious. But my wallet, nestling safely again in my trouser pocket, wasn't worth the trouble. There must be a way of filtering petty crimes out of the system, saving much-needed funds and freeing up transport police officers to concentrate on the nasty stuff. Or have I missed something?