Do you worry about crime levels? Do you sleep easier in your bed because the annual British Crime Survey reports that crime rates are stable and the murder rate at its lowest for 20 years, as happened yesterday? Or do you prefer to be terrified by stories of rampant violence routinely promoted by the Daily Beast?My starting point is not what I read. I know the Guardian's account of the BCS figures today is more likely to concentrate on the positive than, say, the Daily Mail, whose accounts (one of which is called "Rise of the online credit card sharps") make scant mention of the falling murder rate.Incidentally, Alan Travis's Guardian report carries a sensible sidebar which dissects the murder stats – 648 last year, 136 fewer than 2007-08 – and identifies medical advances as a key explanation: more lives of victims are saved by the doctors, just as they are on the modern battlefield.No, my starting point is usually what I observe on the streets of big cities and what I hear from friends and family. When my kids were teenagers two boys they knew were thrown over the Hungerford footbridge into the dark Thames by a gang: one drowned; the gang is in jail. It cast a pall. So did the mugging of another friend of theirs.But for most of us such close events are mercifully few. Horrible crimes of one kind or another are routinely reported, in my neighbourhood as in yours. Is there more violent crime than there was? Yes, of course, much of it fuelled by drink and illegal drugs.Does that invalidate the BCS figures? Not necessarily. There has long been controversy, popular and academic, about how best to collate crime statistics. The BCS is reckoned to be better than police figures, which only record reported crime. Many people witness petty crime or vandalism – car-tyre slashing, for instance – and fear to report it or can't be bothered.What's the point, they say? The police won't do anything. But there's always a point in bearing witness, isn't there? And you never know with the police. A few years ago they failed to turn out for a neighbour's dog who so badly mauled a friend of my wife's attending their book club that she spent a week in hospital.Not a first canine offence either, though the dog was put down this time. A few weeks later, another book club member reprimanded a driver who nearly ran her over on a crossing.An admonitory tap on the car bonnet, that was all. It was enough to prompt the driver – also a woman, younger – to park and assault our friend up a dark street, leaving her with a broken collar bone.The woman rang the police but, in great pain, did not wait for the often-too-long process of being put through on the 999 switchboard. Yet at 2am that night the doorbell rang. The law had traced her number and wanted to make sure she was all right.Not bad, eh? What does it tell us? That the picture is mixed, as always. White collar crime – credit card fraud, especially the online kind, which is unsettling in a different way from burglary – is up. So is pickpocketing. Crime where guns were carried is down by 17%. At least that's what the BCS reports from its sample survey of 50,000.Fatal stabbings? Down from 270 to 252. Attempted murders with a knife? Up from 245 to 271. Rape? Up 5% to 12,000 reported cases. Sex crimes overall? Down 4%. And so on. The Tories say ministers are covering up the scale of the knife crime epidemic (emotive word, but some truth in it, surely?).I was always taught that most crime is committed by young men who grow out of it and settle down; that crime is therefore partly a function of demographics. When the birth rate dips, so does crime. Ours was dipping a decade or so ago, so perhaps there's a partial explanation.But it's also a function of large cities. I once asked a top prisons boffins why our crime rate is higher than that of France (our clear-up rate is too). Larger cities, he answered, though the BCS reports that rural crime is up. That could just reflect better roads along which urban crims can drive in search of open windows.Travis's account suggests that recession-driven crime has not shot up, not yet anyway. But voters – as usual – think crime is increasing. Blame the media, say the experts. But people depend more on what they see and hear. Some sights on the street can seem threatening, even if they are only (mostly) harmless people who might once have been locked up.These are the last BCS stats before the coming election. Will crime be a central issue? My hunch at this stage is no. The Mail may agree; its story is on page six. We are more worried about jobs and debt, the uncertain economic future. Yes?