There is a deep and repulsive secret at the heart of the British justice system. In this country, rape is against the law, but it is not really a crime. The law is not a deterrent, it is not effective, it is at best merely a suggestion.The conviction rate for rape is 6.5%, in itself a low figure, but the true picture is worse. Every estimate says that barely one in 10 rape offences are reported to the police, meaning less than one in every 100 rapes ends in the attacker being convicted and going to jail. The case of the black cab serial rapist John Worboys, who was finally convicted today, reveals jawdropping failures by the police, which happened years after they assured the public and government that they were getting the investigation of rape right.Worboys was a sophisticated attacker, using drugs to overpower victim after victim. Some of those women were brave enough to go to the police and say they believed they had been raped but, despite training and policies imparted to officers to detect the victims of drug rape, who are often unsure whether they have been attacked, they were ignored and essentially not believed.Worboys could and should have been stopped earlier. Now he is convicted, and some of the truth of police failings has come out, we will hear promises that lessons have been learned. Some will talk of new policies and initiatives – it will be a case of groundhog day. Report after report comes out highlighting parts of the problem, and the miscarriage of justice represented by the miniscule conviction rate remains the same. Estimates vary, but around 47,000 women are raped every year, and the fact that so few of their attackers are punished means that in this country there are thousands of unconvicted rapists walking around. As a society we have a choice – accept that this will be the way of things, or try to do something radical, totemic and which stands a chance of triggering lasting change.The Worboys scandal is to rape what the case of Stephen Lawrence was to racially-motivated murder. A public inquiry, with full powers to call witnesses and documents, and a full remit to examine all aspects, is by no means a panacea. The 1999 Macpherson inquiry report into the police failings in the Lawrence murder investigation did not achieve all it could have. But what it did do was make the clearest statement yet that the injustice it exposed was wrong, suggested improvements, and also served as a statement of intent that at least galvanised public opinion.Time after time we learn of new ways the police, crown prosecution service and courts fail those who have been raped, from low sentences, to decisions to drop cases, to police officers' hostile attitudes to victims. The British system handles rape is such a perverse way, it has made it the only serious crime where the victim is under suspicion from the moment they report the attack to the police.In off-the-record conversations I have had with senior officers, it is clear that some are as angry about the failings as any womens' rights campaigner. But I can also think of those who have served as top prosecutors and senior police officers, who most would think of as progressives, whose attitude struck me as lackadaisical. Their view was that little could be done if the accused claimed the victim gave consent. It is left to a jury to find, beyond a reasonable doubt, that consent was not given.The reality of rape in Britain, that it is an almost cost-free act of crushing aggression, makes us look backward. No country in Europe has a lower conviction rate, other than Ireland.Such a wide scale and ingrained injustice is more than a womens' rights issue. And it deserves a better answer than a collective shrug of the shoulders. It deserves to have a light shone on it that a judicial or public inquiry would provide. Then, if we want to decide as a society to ignore this gross injustice, to allow rapists to outsmart our common intelligence, then at least it will be out in the open.