Britain's biggest police force was castigated yesterday for discriminating against ethnic minority officers and paying lip service to diversity, in an official report that came five years after it was found to be institutionally racist.The report by former union boss Sir Bill Morris found the Metropolitan police was more likely to subject ethnic minority officers to disciplinary investigations than white officers, which was "a serious issue of discrimination". The report has potential implications for policing across the country, calling for a radical overhaul of the archaic and slow disciplinary system. It also said diversity was about more than just race and the force had to boost its effort to include more women, disabled people and gay officers in the service. The inquiry was set up by the force's watchdog, the Metropolitan Police Authority, and chaired by Sir Bill. The Met kept on bungling because senior officers were not accountable, the report said. It kept making the same mistakes because, "officers of senior rank seem consistently to avoid accountability for either their actions or those of officers under their direction". Sir Bill made it clear the Met had made progress in the five years since the Macpherson inquiry, and had improved its relations with London communities. The Morris inquiry was set up amid claims from black officers that they were being unfairly targeted for disciplinary investigations. The report found that statistics showed "clear disproportionality" in the way black and minority ethnic officers were treated in relation to the management of their conduct. Sir Bill said outside bodies including the Commission for Racial Equality should be brought in to ensure the Met stamped this out. He said the force could be breaking the law: "If the policy you implement results in disproportionality and the people on the receiving end suffer a detriment, that would constitute indirect discrimination." The force's directorate of professional standards (DPS) which runs the investigations was accused of Al Capone-style attitudes and tactics in investigating officers. Calling for its reform, Sir Bill said it had an approach of: "You name the guilty and we'll find the evidence." The catalyst for the inquiry was the DPS's four-year pursuit of Superintendent Ali Dizaei, which ended with him being charged and cleared twice of corruption offences. Up to £7m was spent in a case that led to a rebellion by the Black Police Association. The inquiry found "a lack of coordination led to an unfocused and disproportionate investigation" and "failure to apply a robust objective analysis". It said the Met had acted unfairly to Mr Dizaei and paid no regard to his welfare. The inquiry said it had not the time to consider the explosive charge from Mr Dizaei's supporters that the Met had run a "racist witchhunt against him", but said that it was "undeniable that race played a considerable part" in the way he had been treated. It called for an independent review of the case, to include an examination of the charge of racial discrimination. But the deputy assistant commissioner Ian Blair, in nominal charge of the unit that pursued Mr Dizaei, rejected the inquiry's conclusions over the case within two hours of its publication. Sir Ian said he would have to look at the call for an independent review of the case, saying the Met already was halfway through conducting its own. But Sir Bill said: "That's the problem; they keep investigating themselves. We have to bring confidence into the system." Mr Blair, the commissioner-designate of the Met, said he would study the report's findings and 37 recommendations: "Despite the continuing modernisation of the service, we do recognise that we have a way to go to build an organisation where everyone feels comfortable, and we'll continue to work together with all our staff and other partners to keep improving." Despite promises on diversity after the 1999 Macpherson report found the force to be institutionally racist, yesterday's report concluded: "There is no common understanding of diversity within the organisation" adding it remains "at worst, a source of fear and anxiety and at best, a process of ticking boxes". The report said the Met's considerable time, money and effort spent on diversity risked a backlash by white officers that would be "catastrophic". Managers were so unsure how to treat ethnic minority staff and officers over disciplinary issues, that they avoided making a decision themselves, instead referring complaints to the disciplinary system. The Met Black Police Association said the report vindicated many of its concerns.Findings Police discipline The inquiry calls for root-and-branch reform of an outdated complaints and discipline system. This will require legislation. The Home Office is reviewing the system  Investigating police officers Inquiry calls for reform of how the Met's directorate of professional standards investigates cases. It calls for a new post equivalent to that of the deputy commissioner to oversee staff management and other support issues  Diversity and discrimination Morris calls for better communication within the force about what diversity means. More needs to be done on issues of gender, sexual orientation and disability. The Met must end the disproportionate targeting of ethnic minority officers for disciplinary investigations