Half a mile, two different signs, two different worlds. The board welcoming visitors to Croxteth Hall Country Park is clean, bright, with polished fleurs-de-lis, and underneath it speaks happily of forthcoming events. Pond-dipping. Something called, intriguingly, mini-beasts. Today's annual flower show.Outside the hall, where the Molyneux family, the earls of Sefton, lived in muted magnificence from the sixteenth century until the last earl's death in 1972, children play beyond the glorious walled garden. Liverpool children, on bikes, with razor-cut hairstyles and hooded tops - but hoods down, laughing with each other, laughing at puppies and pooling cash for a Mister Softee ice-cream.On the path up to the hall I had, it struck me later, come across three quintessentially British groups, almost from a time gone by. Three bobbies, two huge men and a tiny woman between them, one of them busy on the radio, and as I pass I hear him. 'Hello, my little bundle of joy, what have you got for us now?' Joshing with the controller. Behind them, two smartly blue-uniformed nurses from the Denehurst Day Nursery; one pushing a pram for triplets, the other pushing twins. Just behind them, there's an outing for special needs adults, walking in the woods under the cheerful, shell-suited guidance of the kind of men who will give up their free time to do volunteer work like this, and whom this city seems to produce in sympathetically high numbers.Kindness, childcare and the cheerfully old-fashioned presence of Plod. It couldn't really have been further from the image I might have expected, after a day of headlines about poor, gun-ridden Liverpool and feral kids; after a summer of headlines about the death of the Rule of Law, about Anarchy in the UK.Yet five minutes' walk away, ducking through the trees, you're coming out onto Fir Tree Road. On the surface, it's all rather lovely, if you like that manner of suburbia. There are, in Elm Close, water-features: spouting cherubs. There are even elms. There are very clean cars, and the sound of a strimmer. Tents, in a couple of gardens, for the children, when the summer comes. Terribly well-tended roses, and more clean cars, and solid safe picket fencing, and bright blue wheelie-bins and recycling boxes regimented neatly at the end of every driveway.Here, of course, is the shocker. It was here, in the sprawling empty car park of the Fir Tree pub, that Rhys Jones was shot, in the back of the neck, by what appears to be another child, after the most innocent childhood day one could imagine. A trip to buy a school tie, for his step up to secondary school, from the busy little Brenda's, nestling between tanning shops and Chinese food emporiums on the long shopping strip of Muirhead Avenue.Then there was a game of football, and a half-mentioned offer of a lift home which Rhys turned down as it was an OK day for a walk, past the bright bins and chortling cherubs - coach Steve Geoghegan is still struggling with what-ifs - and, suddenly, three shots, and too much sudden blood.It has been mentioned, eloquently by his father, that his new uniform now sits untouched in the wardrobe, and the image is powerful: for me, though, the shocking ease of transition from life, from hope, to endless nothingness was somehow summed up by the fact that Rhys died with his shin-pads on.It's not just that, unbelievably shocking though it is. It's that it happened here. The media swooped, again, on Liverpool, having half-heard the word Croxteth, and the circumstances of a pub car-park, expecting to find yet another grim tale of run-down Liverpool, dirty mean streets and unhappy kids, and revenge shootings. They arrived to find something more akin to Basingstoke: happy streets, and school ties, and articulate, dignified, aching parents. How to explain? How to even begin to explain? To begin, you have to start walking, the long half-mile, up Stalisfield and along Utting Avenue, to the heart not of Croxteth Park but Croxteth proper.Here's the other sign, which you'll see if you turn back briefly and walk from west to east. Welcome to Croxteth. Here's the sign, now seen by tens of thousands of curious/intrigued/ghoulish YouTube viewers, which flickered at the beginning of a nauseating Croxteth gang recruitment campaign in which young men bravely waved guns while bravely wearing masks.Welcome to Croxteth. The sign sits at an inauspicious junction. On one side, a frozen-food store and a bookies, both with bars on the windows. On the other, a cemetery. And an undertaker's. Dual carriageways stretch straight in all four directions, dull unhappy grass in the middle. Poking high in the near-distance is one of those run-down brown things, either a fire-training building or a very badly designed Sixties high-rise for very short people. On the corner sits a pub. It is called the Western Approaches.I am struck, as I wait at the bar, by the amount of CCTV filming going on. It's like a movie set; it almost needs a director. The monitor behind the bar flickers continually between no fewer than 15 views of the pub and its surrounds.Talk is, surprisingly for me, not just of Rhys. The television is not tuned to Sky or BBC News 24 for every last update; it's tuned to the racing, and that's mainly what the talk is about. There is not one person, of course, who does not know of the shooting; but there is more head-shaking than outright anger. Something like this was always going to happen, seems the consensus. An effing tragedy. Poor little effing lad. Effing innocent. But you live here, you drink here, you see it. The little effers on their bikes. Doing drugs. Been like that for years. It's a shithole. What can you do?The reaction is markedly different from one of my other trips to Liverpool, in the aftermath of the James Bulger murder. Then, every television was tuned to the news. Knots of people surged between shop doorways with news and rumour. There seemed, almost, a kind of collective guilt, and sudden wake-up shock: what have we managed to do to our city, that children can do this? I had, frankly, expected to find something similar on Friday: hand-wringing and anger and recriminations. There had even been two boys arrested early, later to be released. I expected the same almost overblown sentiments, and teddy-bears: in truth, in 2007, the internet seems to be taking care of the virtual teddy-bears and the drive to identify or empathise with someone most contributors didn't know. The car park tributes are limited and far from gaudy.I felt sorry for the place, too, because of the timing: after a slow building summer of headlines, about youth crime, about resoundingly innocent victims, about the impossibility of controlling guns or men under 18 in inner cities: it seemed that it was to be Liverpool, again, which had to outdo them all in horror; Liverpool which would become synonymous once more with a broken country.In truth, this weekend, the city seems both more resigned and more grown-up. They had, indeed, these drinkers in the Western, Wayne Rooney's old local, seen something coming: not this exactly, heaven help us, but something not unsimilar.One taxi driver, nipping in at the end of his shift for a cheeky pint, tells me about the flower shop the day before. He doesn't, when talking even tangentially about gangs, want to give his name: nobody, as the police have found over the past couple of days, when they might have expected an absolute flood of outraged local information, wants to put themselves at risk. The second biggest housing estate in Europe Croxteth might be, and my, don't you feel it after six hours' circling walk without coming to the periphery, but it's still a roughly contained estate, and everyone knows where you live, and drink.He'd been dropping off his sister, the man says, in Bobby's on the Strand, to get some flowers to lay in the car park for Rhys. His family knew him, his nephew played in the same team, and there are just the same sentiments I've heard all day - marvellous little lad, and if there was anyone in Liverpool less likely to be involved in gangs you'd be pushed to find them.His sister came out of the flower shop in tears. At the same time, in the same shop, another girl had been buying roses, and was asked if they were for Rhys. 'Nah, nah, 'sfor him,' she replied, pointing to her T-shirt. 'RIP Smigger,' it said.'Smigger', 19-year-old Liam Smith, was shot in the head one year ago last Friday outside Altcourse prison, where he had been visiting a friend, a fellow member of the local Norris Green Strand gang. There had been 17 shooting incidents between the gangs since 2004. On Friday, two days ago, on the precise anniversary of his death, three members of the rival Croxteth Crew gang were convicted of his shotgun murder. My taxi driver's sister was thanked, afterwards, by the florist for holding in her anger: anger at someone celebrating, with roses, the life of a gang member, the day the rest of the city, the Good City Liverpool, was thinking only of the results of gang violence.But gang talk, in the Western Approaches, doesn't last long. There are looks. Looks from youngsters, drinking but not drunk. My companions grow generally more silent, but talk turns to the etiquette of hoods.'It gets complicated, for the young ones,' says one. 'My son, for instance, he doesn't want anything to do with them, the gangs, the hoodies. But if he goes down the shops, he wears one. The way he figures it, and this has happened to mates of his, if you wear a hoodie, with it up, over your face, they can't recognise you, and you can't get into any trouble.'If they recognise you, see your face, then you could have a problem: either you're not a member, and they want to recruit you, or they know you've said no, and they want to have a go at you. So he puts the hood on, puts his head down, walks through the shops like a fucking monk.'There's a lot of lads in this area work hard not to get anywhere near the gangs, Rhys's older brother was one, and he would have been too if he'd been allowed to grow up. But it can be difficult. And you have to think seriously about hoods.' The nuanced intricacies of Milan have nothing, it would seem, on the fashion fallout of a trip to the shops in Utting Avenue or Broadway.It's at Broadway, just along the road in Norris Green, that I see a lad being arrested. This is getting to be a seriously nasty part of town: a mile's walk from Rhys's home, five minutes on a BMX. There are many children, whom I am inclined to think of less and less as children, on bikes, on the pavement, wheeling in circles with impunity, frightening people with small children, bugging the hell out of visiting journalists. Shops lie closed. The ones that lie open all have sales, or offers, and clutches of women stand debating, outside the chemist's and the butcher's: pennies, here, and deals, and vouchers, are important. At the roundabout at the top of Broadway, under the railway bridge, one paper shop lies so unremittingly closed that it has begun to fall back to nature: moss and grass have begun reclaiming their way into broken wooden shutters.As I walk under the bridge, two nearby police start running. Around the corner, I come upon them talking to a youngster, with a hood on but not up, on a bike. He has a face which could be easily described as cheeky. He is, almost undoubtedly, a scally. Just another scene, almost from the past: bobbies, walking, stopping to have a word with a cheeky lad, obviously up to no good. But, 10 minutes later, as I try to talk to people across the road in the Bridge View bar, not often an establishment confused with the Ritz, I see they're still there. Still talking. There looks to be a lot of radio squelching going on. Half an hour passes. Still there. What would have seemed, at one time, a generally innocent feel of the collar has turned, because of these foul circumstances, into something altogether more sinister. An arrest is made. Later, I learn the suspect in custody was picked up almost exactly there, at almost exactly the same time. It could, quite conceivably, be that I witnessed the collar, by a panting older policeman, in something that looked for seconds straight out of Just William, and turns out to be from A Clockwork OrangeBroadway is not lovely. The walk from there to Croxteth is not particularly lovely, but not awful: there are attempts, at every third house along the way, to spark it up with individual pride. It seems, on the surface, a rather peaceful council estate, soundly built. There are, admittedly, criminally few shops. You would honestly need a car or, obviously, a bike. But not openly horrid or threatening; not on a first visit. It takes the locals to help me find horrid.A car screeches to a halt, and reverses, as I'm standing with a notebook on Parkstile Lane, outside Croxteth Community Comprehensive High School, jotting down the motto - 'Results... Respect... Responsibility.''You with the press, mate?' shouts the driver, buzzing down the passenger window, in which a friend sits quietly, calming a tiny baby girl. I tell him yes, and he unleashes a torrent of swearing which makes me want to, perhaps dangerously, reach forward and cover the baby's ears - abuse not at me, but at where he lives.'Shithole, Croxteth. Tell them that. Absolute shithole. The gangs... no, I don't know what to do. No one knows what to do. Go round the corner into Moss Way, have a look, how can someone shop there? Bloody gangs. I blame the effing parents.' He lights up, hands a lit one to the baby minder and screeches off with a waved Seeya. I walk round the corner.Right enough, it's not pretty. For all that there are terribly too few shops in the estate, sometimes you don't want to find them. There is a long, long stretch of closed, barred, shuttered, shops: the minicab office and the Moss Way Oriental Supper Bar are all that are open. Dark green ugly metal and grey bars cover a third of a mile. There is much graffiti. Here, apparently, is where the bike gangs gather. It's quiet, at dusk on Friday, but that will be because, morons though some of them are, and most of all with their fantastically undeserved calls for 'respect', it would take a special type of moron to hang out this night on a BMX, with a gang, holding drugs, carrying a gun.It can be too easy, surely, to blame the design of estates for the behaviour of residents. Certainly, here in Croxteth proper, surely the concentration of, apparently, the only shops in the world in one ugly row meant, always would have meant, the concentration of what once used to be called disaffected youth, before the guns came along and moved us up several scary jumps. And the rat-runs of paths snaking in and out of the splendid nearby Croxteth Park estate, where Rhys was killed, undoubtedly let the perpetrator escape: but they were designed surely for happy chats and cycling, of which there has doubtless been much down the years, not to help gunmen escape unseen.In all my travels, this has continued to strike me. Yes, there are grim bits. Yes, there are long unlit roads; and, yes, nasty boarded shops that hardly make you feel life's worth living. But live people do; and stay safe, and grow up, and keep themselves on the right side of the law, and paint their houses, and buy school ties, and do homework. The differences are not just between the council wastelands Croxteth/Norris Green and the private primnesses of Croxteth Park; they are between neighbouring houses, between neighbouring individuals. Bizarrely, my potty-mouthed friend in the car was summing up what many, many around here told me: I blame the parents.There wasn't, honestly, much ranting against the police for not doing their job; although most women around Broadway were delighted to see so many of them, for once, on foot. Few had moans about the education system; schools are liked. Generally, if there was any blame, it was simply directed at those who lived the same lives, in the same sprawling scheme, under the same sky, with the same money worries, but had brought up their children to be less than angelic. The word 'scum' was used more than once.Which is what must make it so difficult for those attempting politics or analysis this week; particularly gesture politics. There was talk, much, of more laws, which simply mystified the drinkers in the Bridge View. More laws - such as one making it illegal to shoot an 11-year-old boy in the back of the head? You would have thought we might have bothered to put that one on the statute book already.There is a strong argument, surely, for fewer laws. Eleven years ago, Dunblane happened: I can remember the absurd Dutch auction in which Labour and the Tories attempted to outbid each other on things they would ban to save lives - guns, knives; perhaps loofahs. A decade on, the bans have done nothing; and finally the debate is focusing (rightly) not on gun laws but on where the guns are coming from.The bans have, here in Croxteth, perhaps contributed to teenage crime; because older gang leaders will now get a mandatory five years for illegal possession of a firearm, they let the 13 and 14-year old 'footsoldiers' carry them instead, with consequences we witnessed last week. The drug laws, the continuing confusion over but continuing technical illegality of cannabis, are what drive the teen gang gun trade: dope is the drug of choice here. For all the signs in pretty, careful Croxteth Park - Neighbourhood Watch. Home Watch. Do not park. Absolutely no ball games (which seems particularly mean). CCTV in operation. No bins. No access - not one of them stopped a teen psychopath riding past them all with a gun readied for a child.There are, of course, no quick fixes, which will frustrate the devil out of those who want them. And the call for quick answers will surely increase, after a summer of, actually, unrelated events which have led the media to hand-wring over a broken, anarchic Britain. We, the media, are always good at this linkage, perhaps a polite name for hysteria. Events which simply include the words death, or guns, or children, are somehow put together to create a trend. Yesterday morning - is it just me that finds this weird? - Sky had an interview with Maddie McCann's father, asking him to say what he thought about Rhys's shooting.But feral children were being written about by Dickens, and depicted by Hogarth. Gun crime in Liverpool was being written about more than 10 years ago: 'Liverpool's crime scene has been transformed [through] levels of gun use more familiar to Los Angeles,' reported my colleague Peter Beaumont in The Observer in April 1996. 'Guns have been fired in streets, even into taxi queues. Inevitably, the innocent are being hurt.'As a strangely pretty sunset washes over the strangely ugly Western Approaches bar, a small bus grunts past, on its way to Penny Lane; and I think, of course, of the song, and of Liverpool's bright ability to make the best out of the least promising. That slightly facile thought fades a little the next morning, with news of another shooting, in exactly that street.But Liverpool isn't soul-searching about its image. It seems mature enough, having been battered through the worst ravages of mad Right and mad Left in the Eighties, and a few pieces of unconscionable pain since, to be able to tell the difference between the two deaths, and not get frenzied about the end of the world.They live here, these people, and knew something was going to happen, and of course they've thought about it. That there is, indeed, something wrong, perhaps something newly wrong, with aspects of society is in little doubt. Depending on your politics, you can blame either side. The people here, blame, basically, bad parents. It has absolutely no clue, none whatsoever, what you do about that: how do you change society retrospectively?It isn't, rightly, asking for quick fixes, because it knows there are few. Slow, unrewarding, community action. A celebration of, and trust in, good people; not writing off entire estates because of their name, but remembering the volunteers, and the painted houses, and the school runs, and the fact that children can shave their heads and wear hoods and ride bikes but still be innocent, even happy. More police, with fewer hands tied.I suspect gesture politics will be seen through rather quickly in Croxteth, as it recovers from this past week, which it will; and perhaps seen as such more widely. Perhaps, oddly enough, the rest of Britain will for once take its lead from Liverpool.Wednesday, 22 AugustPolice confirm that an 11-year-boy has been fatally shot near the Fir Tree pub in Croxteth. Standing in a football shirt in the car-park, Rhys Jones was apparently shot by a teenager on a bike. It later emerges that his mother cradled him as he lay dying in her arms.Thursday, 23 AugustPolice arrest a 14- and an 18-year-old in connection with the shooting. Both are released on bail. It is revealed that videos posted on YouTube by members of gangs , the Crockys and the Nogzys, paint a frightening picture of rivalry and turf wars in the area. In one a teenager points a gun at the camera. Others show images of young people doing hand-brake turns in cars. Rhys had nothing to do with either of the gangs.Gordon Brown hosts a pre-arranged Downing Street summit on youth disorder. He brands the murder a 'heinous crime' and says those responsible will be ' arrested and punished'.Neighbours in Croxteth gather for a vigil. Rhys's parents, Melanie and Stephen Jones, make an appeal for the killers to be caught. Melanie, 41, breaks down in tears, saying 'our son was only 11, our baby. This should not happen, this should not be going on'. Stephen says they have 'lost their world'.Friday, 24 AugustOfficers arrest a 16-year-old from the local area and he is questioned on suspicion of murder. Police confirm that an abandoned bicycle, found in a different part of Liverpool, is being examined.A witness reveals that at least 15 young people had a 'crystal clear' view of Rhys Jones' killer. Police admit difficulty breaking down a wall of silence that is hampering the inquiry.David Cameron, leader of the Conservative Party, calls for everyone to join the fight against social breakdown.In an impassioned speech he says: 'What is required is simply asking how many more parents have to bury their children before we decide to choose a different path for our society.'Saturday, 25 AugustNearly 40,000 football fans hear a police plea for help to catch Rhys's murderer at the ootball match between the 11-year-old's beloved Everton and Blackburn Rovers. A one minute's applause marks his murder. The match is attended by Rhys's father and older brother.