A man accused of the murder of PC Sharon Beshenivsky has admitted to a Newcastle court that he fired the gun which killed her and seriously injured her partner during a failed armed robbery in Bradford last year.Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, told the jury the gun went off three times, but he denied firing it intentionally on all three occasions. He told the court he did not intend to kill or harm anyone.Jamma is one of five men accused of murdering Ms Beshenivsky during a botched robbery at a travel agency in November 2005.Earlier, Justice Andrew Smith had ordered a jury to clear Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah, 25, of the attempted murder of PC Teresa Milburn, who attended the scene with Ms Beshenivsky.Shah has already pleaded guilty to the murder of Ms Beshenivsky but denied firing the gun that killed her.Raza Ul-Haq Aslam, 25, Faisal Razzaq, 25, and his 26-year-old brother Hassan are also charged with the murder of Ms Beshenvisky, which they deny.The judge told the jury earlier today he had spent last week considering a number of matters in the case, and one of them was whether the case against Shah on the attempted murder of PC Milburn should continue in light of the evidence presented by the prosecution."The decision that I reached was that the count of the attempted murder charge cannot properly be allowed to continue," the judge said. "Therefore I'm going to direct you to return a not guilty verdict on that count."Shah will therefore take no further part in the trial after that."Jamma told the court he had drunk a bottle of vodka on the morning of the shootings and only thought he would drive the car during the robbery. When he arrived at the scene, his brother Mustaf - who is on the run - persuaded him to take part and then gave him a 9mm pistol.When the two women arrived at the door of the travel agency, Jamma told the court everyone started to panic and he heard a loud bang."We all started to panic," he said. "We were all in a rush to get out. I just wanted to get out."Last month, Milburn, 37, gave emotional testimony to the jury about the "milliseconds" in which she saw Ms Beshenivsky murdered, and a sudden "immense" pain" as she herself was shot.With her radio panic button, Ms Milburn activated a "code zero" alert - meaning a fellow officer needed urgent help - before collapsing in a central Bradford street.When colleagues arrived to find blood seeping from her mouth and nose, she told them to get a pen and paper. "Write this down," she said and gave a description of an Asian man who she said had fired the gun.Ms Milburn said she saw the gunman for about four seconds. "I got a view of an Asian male. About five feet eight, five 10; he had black hair, wavy slightly, brushed to the right. I could see his forearm and his arm from his elbow and his hand extended to 90 degrees, pointing to where Sharon was stood. He had a black, smooth gun. It went across the top of his hand, had a small step at the end of it."