A female student who intervened when she saw a man harassing two young women in a McDonald’s restaurant was killed in Germany in November. The man followed 23-year-old Tuğçe Albayrak into the car park, where he bludgeoned her to death. The incident has ignited debate about how – and even if – you should intervene when you see someone being sexually assaulted. In the US, a new and growing movement is training students to help victims of sexual harassment or assault on campus. The aim is to convert students’ concerns about the pervasiveness of sexual violence into practical assistance.One bystander intervention project, the Green Dot scheme, is fast gaining popularity in the US. Trained facilitators start dialogues with students about steps they can take if they see an attack. A variety of techniques are taught – from confronting an attacker directly, to attempting to distract them. Students are taught how to form a physical barrier between attacker and victim so the latter can escape. While not all attacks can be stopped, the Green Dot programme believes that intervening in a safe way can still be a powerful show of support to the victim. They believe that every intervention is a strong statement against violence, fear and victimisation. Victims also need to be reassured that the attack wasn’t their fault. Studies by the Centre for Research on Violence Against Women (CRVAW) suggest that after students have been trained in bystander intervention by the Green Dot, reports of campus sexual violence are reduced by more than 50%.Would the effect be similar at universities in the UK?I spoke to students about whether they have witnessed harassment or assault on campus, and if they would feel confident about acting if they did. Many said they’d feel torn between wanting to get involved, worrying about making things worse for the victim, and putting themselves in danger.Steph Pong, a chemistry student at Imperial College London, says: “If I saw something like this happening, of course I’d try to intervene and help in whatever way I could. I’d have to consider my personal safety as well, like how strong the attacker was or if they were part of a group. I think most students would be wary of getting involved.”Aislinn Jackson, a second-year linguistics student at University College London, says: “I’d try to intervene but if it were a situation where the victim looked like they would be more harmed than helped by my intervention – if the attacker had a weapon for example – I’d call the police or on-campus security.” Jackson says she would support universities educating students about intervention practices: “Safety in these situations is paramount, as the person intervening shouldn’t cause the victim any more damage or trauma. “I also think attacking these problems at the source is vital. Students should be taught about sexual assault and harassment and taught that it’s entirely unacceptable from the get-go.”Charlotte Ramshaw, an English literature student at the University of Aberdeen, intervened when a student harassed her friend in their halls of residence. She says: “A male student kept touching and grabbing my friend, even after she told him to leave. I got the on-site staff to come round and reported him to the police. My friend appreciated me being there.”The National Union of Students is exploring bringing bystander intervention to UK universities. It is backing a pilot scheme at the University of the West of England this year. Susuana Antubam, women’s officer for the NUS, says: “These are difficult situations and students have to take into account their safety as well as the safety of the person that they’re trying to defend.”What can you do if you see someone being sexually assaulted?Julia Gray from anti-harassment campaign group, Hollaback London, shares advice on steps you can take if you witness an attack:• If you’re out with friends and someone makes a misogynist comment or joke about rape: “Gently question the speaker as a way of getting them to think about it in a different way. Try asking how they would feel if they had experienced rape and overheard this? Ask them what if the subject of the joke was a member of their family, do they think they’d feel differently?”• If you’re in a nightclub and you see someone grope someone else: “Approach the victim, maybe pretend like you know them to deter the other person. Offer them help, ask them if there’s anything you can do and if they’re ok. Maybe tell them you saw the incident and you’re sorry it happened, it shouldn’t have happened. Offer to go to the bar manager, or wait with them until they get a cab, or until the person who groped them has left.”• If you see someone being catcalled and harassed in the street or continually receiving unwanted advances: “It’s not advisable to go wading in like Prince Charming, you could end up exacerbating the situation and putting yourself at risk. Offering to wait with someone at the bus stop, calling them a cab, or calling the police if need be is a good start. Providing affirmation that it’s not OK and you’re on the victim’s side is a powerful way to support them and help them to recover.”• What should you do if you see someone being assaulted or attacked? “As with any other type of violent crime, if someone witnesses a physical assault they should call the police.”Keep up with the latest on Guardian Students: follow us on Twitter at @GdnStudents – and become a member to receive exclusive benefits and our weekly newsletter. 