Prosecutors have been warned by the government to exercise caution over the use of medical expert Professor Sir Roy Meadow in future trials.The solicitor general, Harriet Harman MP, said the crown prosecution service should alert defence lawyers to court of appeal criticism of Prof Meadow in all current and future cases involving the eminent pediatrician. Her warning also referred to pathologist Dr Alan Williams. Both of the men were criticised by the court of appeal when Sally Clark was cleared of killing her two baby sons. Prof Meadow also gave evidence in the trial of Trupti Patel who was cleared this month of killing her three children. The new advice to the CPS came as the service admitted it was considering reviewing past cases involving Dr Williams, and would not rule out similar reviews of Prof Meadow's previous cases. Ms Clark, 38, a solicitor, spent three years in prison before her conviction was quashed in February this year. Dr Williams was criticised by the appeal judges for failing to disclose certain information at her trial. His practice of not passing on all test results to other doctors carried "a significant risk of a miscarriage of justice", the appeal court heard. Prof Meadow, 70, had told Ms Clark's first appeal in 2000 that two cot deaths in one family were a "one in 73 million chance" - a claim disputed by the Royal Statistical Society. At the appeal, Lord Justice Kay said the statistic "should never have been advanced to a jury". Ms Harman said the CPS was "in the process of issuing guidance to all chief crown prosecutors instructing them to identify cases involving either Dr Williams or Prof Meadow and ensuring that the defence are made aware of the judgment". On the issue of reviewing past cases, the CPS would not comment on how many this may involve. The CPS said it was in "discussion with other agencies" and it was "antici pated that this will identify whether there is a need for an in-depth review of past cases and if so the extent of that review". Prof Meadow went on to give evidence in the Trupti Patel trial earlier this month where he said that "two cot deaths is suspicious, three is murder". Mrs Patel was cleared at Reading crown court of the murder of three of her infant children, Amar, Jamie and Mia, following a six week trial. The way the courts deal with alleged infanticide cases could change with some suggestion that more might be made of evidence from medical experts at the pre-trial stage. The Patel and Clark cases prompted debate about how many child deaths are caused by genetics while some doctors said they were concerned recent cases could lead to some parents getting away with murder. In Mrs Patel's case, the jury heard that an inherited disorder might have been to blame for the deaths of her babies. Her grandmother flew from India to explain in court how five of her 12 children died soon after birth. Last night Trupti Patel gave her first televised interview since being cleared. She told Channel 4 News: "We feel we have started our grieving process and we have key dates, birthdays and anniversaries that tend to be very poignant." She said: "Mia [the last child to die] has been a very different story and I still feel that grief will come out in years to come and on a slower process." Ms Patel, who has one child, said she would not have another child even if doctors discovered why three of her children died. "I wouldn't. No. Because of what having lost three children has meant, I think the finger would be out again."