Britain's trains have become less secure for the both the public and railway staff, with overall crime up by 2.3% and violent crime up 14%, figures showed today.The annual report by the British Transport police (BTP) also showed that sexual offences had increased by 12% compared with the previous year. The report analyses reported crime in the 12 months to the end of March.A BTP spokesman said the violent crime figure was an almost exact mirror of what was happening on the streets, rather than being a specific problem for the railway network. The spokesman said that, although the figure had increased, the number of people affected remained relatively small. There were 8,727 violent crimes and around 1,200 sexual offences reported in 2003-2004, set against more than five million passengers travelling across the whole network every day."The majority of these offences are low level assault, and that tends to be antisocial behaviour spilling over into assault," the spokesman said. Most crime happened in stations rather than on trains, he added. BTP, which is paid for by the train operating companies and Transport for London, relies on investment in safety by the private franchises now running Britain's trains. Only a handful of train operating companies had invested in security, the spokesman said. "Train operating companies tended to view us in the past as just a cost they could do without - just a tax, basically," he added.He said private companies tended not to think about long-term issues such as security, adding that increased investment in it would make a difference to the crime figures. BTP was working to persuade train operators that investment in security would benefit their businesses, not only making their customers feel more secure but also directly improving their balance sheets. The spokesman said fatalities, often suicides, had a dramatic effect on train companies. If BTP officers could move in quickly to establish that the location of a fatality was not a crime scene, and make it safe for the trains to move again, companies could reduce the penalty fines they faced for late running trains. Two notable exceptions to the trend of low investment were commitments made by South West Trains and London mayor Ken Livingstone's Transport for London. South West Trains had invested heavily in CCTV at its stations and two CCTV centres to process the footage. The company also paid for so-called travel safe officers, essentially private security guards jointly trained by BTP and South West Trains. Mr Livingstone had invested heavily in more BTP officers on London underground, increasing the number of officers from 400 to 567 in the last year, with an eventual goal of 600 officers. Despite the investment, violent crime on the Tube rose by 22.1% compared with 2002-03, with much of this due to a 29% increase in assaults on staff. Such incidents now account for one third of all reported assaults. Criminal damage, mainly graffiti, increased by 31.5% across the network. There were 1,500 more graffiti incidents this year, with recorded offences up by 75%. On London Underground, recorded graffiti more than doubled. Theft from passengers fell overall by 2.8%, pushed down by a 17.6% reduction in pickpocketing on the Underground. The problem accounts for 42% of all Tube crime. However, success on the Tube masked the fact that theft from passengers was up by 2.8% in England and Wales overall, and by 8.5% in Scotland.BTP said that, in light of the Madrid train bombings in March, which killed 202 people, counter-terror activity remained its top priority and was demanding increasing resources. Line of route offences such as obstructing trains, cutting signal cables and endangering safety fell 15%, while railway trespass was down 4.9%.