A married teacher was jailed for almost five years yesterday for repeated sex offences with young teenage girls at a school where a colleague was convicted of similar crimes last year.Steven Edwards, 34, used flattery and favouritism to coax three vulnerable victims into complying, and then forced them into the witness box by denying "compelling" evidence of his abuse.Passing sentence after a jury's unanimous guilty verdict, the recorder of Hull, Judge Michael Mettyear, told him: "It is a great shame you could not bring yourself to admit what you had done and therefore spared the girls from having to give evidence."Edwards had claimed to be in love, said the judge, but was in fact "just using" the girls. He was convicted of five charges of abusing a position of trust by having sexual intercourse with a child under 16 and three similar charges with a child under 18. The jury could not reach a verdict on allegations involving a fourth girl.Edwards' family protested angrily at the four years and eight months sentence after a 10-day trial, which heard that friends, members of his church and colleagues at his East Yorkshire secondary school, which cannot be named, could not believe he had committed the offences. His wife Sandra mouthed "I love you" across the court and said after he was taken to jail: "I would warn every member of teaching staff that this could happen to them, especially male members of staff."The jury had heard how Edwards picked out attractive but vulnerable pupils and complimented them on their prettiness. He had been warned twice about inappropriate behaviour, once by the headteacher and once by police, but the extent of his abuse had not been recognised.Helen Hendry, prosecuting, said: "Both he and his close family appear to be in denial that he's guilty of these offences. Not only his family, but the church and even other members of staff cannot accept the guilt of this man. Even the head, despite repeated alarm bells, could not believe it of him. That makes Edwards perhaps more a danger in the future."The trial was told the pupils were besotted with an older and powerful figure, and had initially gone along with his denials to protect him. Ms Hendry said the case was similar to that of Ian Blott, an arts teacher at the school, who was jailed for four years last year after admitting long term sex with an under-age pupil.Nicholas Johnson, defending, said: "This falls very hard upon [Edwards'] wife, stepchildren and his daughter, Amelia. For her at the age of nine, this comes at the worse possible time."