For a sportsman whose image celebrated bravado and ostentatious wealth, "Prince" Naseem Hamed had few vices. His Muslim faith kept him away from gambling, drink and drugs.But it did nothing to inhibit his love of cars, all fast enough to make a statement as he sped around his beloved Sheffield. Yesterday, as the 32-year-old multimillionaire began a 15-month jail sentence for a high-speed crash that left a man close to death, his love for fast cars was exposed as a vice too far.The verdict at Sheffield crown court was received with quiet satisfaction by Anthony Burgin, 39, who narrowly survived the 90mph collision with Hamed's silver £320,000 Mercedes SLR McLaren - numberplate NAS 1 - one of the fastest vehicles of its kind in the world. Mr Burgin has since needed nine operations after breaking every major bone in his body. He also sustained damage to the frontal lobe of his brain. His wife Claire, 36, a passenger that day, suffered multiple injuries."They hope this sentence will help other people realise the dangers inherent in speeding," their lawyer, Jane Wright, said. "This is not a case about celebrity. It is about extremely powerful motor cars being driven dangerously."Hamed's wife Eleasha, 32, who is expecting their third child, was led distraught from the public gallery. Afterwards, his lawyer, Steve Smith, said the boxer had accepted his fate with dignity.It was a terrible but perhaps unsurprising calamity. Over the past 11 years and before last May's crash, Hamed, who was awarded an MBE in 1999, had been banned on at least one occasion for driving at excessive speed. He received penalty points on at least three other occasions. He will now face a four-year ban.The court heard how Hamed was driving on the edge of the Peak District, just metres from one of his many homes in Sheffield, on May 2 2005. His passenger was Asif Ayub, 46, a potential business partner, who had arrived at Hamed's home in a Ferrari. "The proper inference was that the defendant was anxious to show off his car and that is what he was doing," said Andrew Hatton, prosecuting.Having passed a number of vehicles at high speed, he pulled out to pass a Ford Mondeo but the manoeuvre - in which he crossed a no-overtaking line - took him into the path of Mr Burgin's Volkswagen Golf as it emerged from the brow of a hill.Though Hamed sought to apologise to Mr Burgin and to others, he then jogged towards his home, claiming there was little he could do at the scene and that tempers were obviously running high. Witnesses later said his driving had been "stupid, suicidal, ridiculous" and that he had behaved "like a maniac".For his part Hamed said he had been "het-up and frustrated with the car in front of me that was braking non-stop". He claimed the driver had been looking to "see who was behind him", adding: "It was irritating." He said the Mercedes' power was "unbelievable".Passing sentence, the recorder of Sheffield, Judge Alan Goldsack, complained that the two-year maximum sentence for dangerous driving was insufficient. He noted that attempts to research Hamed's driving history appeared to have been hampered by the DVLA.He said Hamed was otherwise of good character but told him: "Speeding is clearly not something you got out of your system as a young man: it was a major cause of this incident. Your fame does not mean you fall to be dealt with in any different way to any other person. You, like everyone, have an obligation to obey the law when behind the wheel."The jailing almost certainly marks the end of an extraordinary career that saw Hamed feted by such stars as Sylvester Stallone, P Diddy, Will Smith, Michael Jackson and Donald Trump. He lost just one of 37 pro fights, defending his WBO title 15 times. Last November he hinted at a comeback and US TV networks clamoured for the chance to screen his fights.His sentence will also impact upon his standing in Sheffield, where his wealth, charitable activities and attitude made him a visible figure. Character witnesses testified about his work behind the scenes for charities. Other local people, however, tell tales of how he would park in restricted areas and speed down bus lanes.He was found and nurtured by Brendan Ingle, a trainer who also guided Herol Graham to a world title. They parted after disagreements in 1998. "I would say that he could have been as good as Muhammad Ali but strange things happen to people," Ingle said. "It was a matter of time before something went wrong and it was always likely to involve the cars. People would complain to me about him cutting them up on the road and overtaking them at fantastic speed."I had a go at him but his ego was out of control. I think it is very sad but a lot of people will say he got his comeuppance."The man and his carsOne of Hamed's first cars was a Jeep Wrangler, after which he moved up to a £100,000 Mercedes. His fleet grew to include a £248,000 Bentley Azure. On one occasion he was reported by the Yorskhire Post to have bought a 4x4 simply because it was a snowy day. In 1997 he took a Ferrari Berlinetta for a test drive and crashed it. Asked a year later to say which car had the best performance, he said: "Definitely the Lamborghini. But I do enjoy driving my Ferrari. Saying that, I've got my Aston Martin in town. You just feel different in all of them. I've always said to myself, different cars for different days ... Aston Martin'll be the occasion where it may be a premiere or something like that ... The Porsche'd be just a sling-around-town job ... just a flash around town, just pop to the shop, and here and there, you're in a Porsche, d'you know what I mean?"