 Melanie Reid  Herald, Scotland, December 7 "A Conservative MP, Patrick Mercer, is putting forward a private member's bill to amend the Criminal Law Act of 1967, making it clear that householders can use force when they find an intruder in their home. 'Whatever force is necessary' will replace 'reasonable force', under the existing legislation. People would only face prosecution if the degree of force was 'grossly disproportionate'... "The aim is to swing the balance away from the perceived victim-hostile climate, in which householders think they will be found guilty if they defend themselves. The bash-a-burglar road, however, is one to proceed down with extreme caution... "There is no formula for self-defence, no rule book. No two people react in the same way... You simply cannot legislate for how much force is reasonable, or how much you will endanger yourself if you engage... The dangers of heading, gung-ho, down the self-defence road, amending the law rather than applying existing law properly, is that people will resort to guns for self-defence."  Daily Express  Editorial, December 6  "Time and again we hear of a homeowner defending his family and property, only to end up being charged himself. This is an inversion of natural justice. It has brought the law into contempt, played into the hands of the villains and destroyed trust in the police. Meanwhile, decent and honest folk have grown to live in fear for their lives. "In the US, householders have an unqualified right of self-defence, all the way up to and including killing the intruder. As a result, only 12% of break-ins take place when the owners are in their property, as opposed to more than 50% here. British homeowners should be given the same rights as in the US. No one, in such a situation, should ever have to run the risk of prosecution again."  Andreas Whittam Smith  Independent, December 6  "Sir John Stevens, the outgoing metropolitan police commissioner, argues that the law is too imprecise at the moment for people when they are in extremis. You should be absolutely clear what your legal rights are to defend yourself... "There is confusion - though I would be surprised to find that the 'reasonable force' test isn't working well in practice. None the less, the standard way of clarifying a misunderstood area of the law is for the lord chief justice to make a statement that reminds people of what the law actually is. Lord Woolf could issue what is known as a practice direction. In 2002, for instance, the question of mandatory life sentences was handled in this way. "Failing this, however, the wording of the relevant law should be tightened up but not going so far as the version likely to be proposed in Mr Mercer's bill. The worst mistake would be to do anything which encouraged ordinary citizens to own guns."  David Mellor  Evening Standard, London, December 6  "The clarification Sir John now seeks is an idea whose time has come... Such a change is no guarantee of a better future... A nasty piece of work [might] think any unannounced caller at his premises is fair game. Then of course there's the risk that such a change won't stop burglars from burgling, merely make them more likely to use deadly force if disturbed in order to get their retaliation in first. "But the overwhelming reason why Sir John is right is that such a measure allows the public to reassert that their interests are paramount when it comes to serious crime. An Englishman's home is his castle, we used to boast, but that hasn't been true for many years now. It's time to restore the balance."  Mark Steyn  Daily Telegraph, December 7  "An Englishman's home is not his castle, but his dungeon and ever more so - window bars, window locks, dead bolts, laser security... The British establishment's current complacent approach accepts that ever greater and ever more violent crime is a fact of life, rather than a historical aberration encouraged by the unprecedented constraints placed on the law-abiding and the boundless licence extended to the criminal class. That policy leads remorselessly to more deaths, and to lives lived under small but ever more insidious and corrupting restrictions. "The Tories' big mistake was their failure to understand that 'freedom' isn't just about consumer choices or buying your council flat. It's also about being free to defend your home... And an assertive citizenry, confident in its freedoms and its responsibilities, is a better bet for long-term survival than the passive charges of the nanny state."  Daily Mail  Editorial, December 6 "Some argue that such a measure would make criminals more violent. But could they get more aggressive than they are now? The only way to establish what is an acceptable level of force is to apply common sense - an element that seems to be missing from much of our legislature. Many ordinary householders, who now live in fear as burglars seem to operate at will and with impunity, would view the prospect of defending themselves against violent intruders with horror. But they must at least feel that in extremis they could do so."