Politicians are partly to blame for the collapse in moral values that contributed to the riots, the work and pensions secretary, Iain Duncan Smith, has said.In an interview broadcast ahead of major speeches by David Cameron and Ed Miliband on the causes of the riots, Duncan Smith said politicians from all parties needed to share responsibility for the development of a selfish, "life is what you take out of it" culture.According to extracts from his speech released in advance, Cameron will say Britain has undergone a "slow-motion moral collapse" in the speech he is giving. But he has so far generally avoided making a link between the behaviour of the rioters and the behaviour of people at the top of society, such as MPs.However, in an interview on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, Duncan Smith conceded that the behaviour of MPs involved in the expenses scandal may have contributed to a wider decline in moral standards."We all have to put our hands in the air, those of us in leadership positions, and recognise, in the last 15 or 20 years, what has happened to us is that many of us have just decided that life is about what you take out of it, not what you put in," he said."You know, stiffing somebody on a debt in the City, or raiding someone's telephone for messages, claiming expenses that you should not have claimed … all of us have to recognise we have to put our own house in order at the same time, and try and change that."Duncan Smith said that, for too long, those at the top of society had been willing to believe that different moral standards applied to them, and that had to stop. "This process of right and wrong runs for all of us," he said.According to extracts of his speech released in advance, Miliband is going to make a similar point. He will deliver it at Haverstock school, the north London comprehensive where he was educated."It's not the first time we've seen this kind of me first, take what you can attitude," Milband will say."The bankers who took millions while destroying people's savings – greedy, selfish, immoral. The MPs who fiddled their expenses – greedy, selfish, immoral. The people who hacked phones to get stories and make money for themselves – greedy, selfish and immoral. Let's talk about what this does to our culture."Cameron will push his long-held opinion that parts of Britain are broken, despite opinion polls that show the public believes he has not handled events well.He will say government ministers from both parties will audit their portfolios for policies aimed at mending the "broken society".In the speech, to be delivered outside London, he will say: "Over the next few weeks, I and ministers from across the coalition government will review every aspect of our work to mend our broken society."On schools, welfare, families, parenting, addiction, communities; on the cultural, legal, bureaucratic problems in our society, too, from the twisting and misrepresenting of human rights that has undermined personal responsibility, to the obsession with health and safety that has eroded people's willingness to act according to common sense – and consider whether our plans and programmes are big enough and bold enough to deliver the change that I feel this country now wants to see."His words again suggest that the government is angling to renegotiate European law, which can overrule domestic legislation, and which they believe has prevented them from devising policies as they would like."Irresponsibility. Selfishness. Behaving as if your choices have no consequences. Children without fathers. Schools without discipline. Reward without effort. Crime without punishment. Rights without responsibilities. Communities without control. Some of the worst aspects of human nature tolerated, indulged – sometimes even incentivised – by a state and its agencies that in parts have become literally de-moralised," he will sayHe will add that he believes that the public is "crying out" for the government to act in this way, and "I will not be found wanting". His passion to mend the "broken society" is, he will say, "stronger today than ever".Miliband is due to speak half an hour later, and will reflect on ideas floated over the weekend by Duncan Smith, who has been appointed to lead a gangs task force.Duncan Smith said the government would begin "harassing" gang leaders, suggesting dusk to dawn curfews, daily visits and a trawl of their lives and finances to pick up minor infringements.He suggested gang members possibly should receive a knock on the door once a day from the police and arms of government such as the TV licensing offices, tax authorities and DVLA.Children out late at night would be offered places at newly-created young offenders academies to "take the anger out of their lives".Miliband is pushing for a national inquiry. He will say: "A new policy a day, knee-jerk gimmicks unveiled without being properly thought through, are unlikely to solve the problem."The Labour leader will also taunt the prime minister, saying that when Cameron was developing his analysis of "broken Britain" in opposition, he acknowledged that deprivation mattered as much as culture in explaining antisocial behaviour.Miliband will say: "I don't understand why he has changed his mind. The world hasn't changed. Maybe it isn't his view of the world that has changed, but his view of what would make him popular that has changed."I am clear – both culture and deprivation matter. To explain is not to excuse. But to refuse to explain is to condemn to repeat."