The death of Jimmy Mubenga while being deported from Britain to Angola is the first such incident since Joy Gardner died after being gagged and restrained by police at her home in Crouch End, north London, in 1993.Thirteen feet of masking tape and a body belt were used to restrain Gardner, a 40-year-old mother, when officers from the Metropolitan police specialist deportation squad arrived to deport her back to Jamaica.The officers involved were found not guilty of manslaughter at a subsequent Old Bailey trial but the specialist deportation squad was disbanded. The job of carrying out forced deportations was contracted by the UK Border Agency to private security firms, with G4s involved in the vast majority of the 10,000 forced removals a year.It is too early to conclude exactly what happened to Mubenga when his BA flight was taxiing on the runway but the eyewitness statements suggest positional asphyxia may have been involved. This happens when someone's physical position prevents them from breathing adequately. A small but significant number of people have died suddenly, and without apparent reason, while being restrained by police and prison officers over the past 20 years. One of the dangers has been that restraining somebody in a position that compromises their airway, such as bending their head down towards their knees, can lead to asphyxiation.One of the warning signs of positional asphyxia is an individual struggling to breathe. Both Met police and UK prison service instructions explicitly warn their staff that there is a common misconception that if an individual can talk they are able to breathe. "This is not the case. An individual dying from positional asphyxia may well be able to speak or shout prior to collapse," says the prison service instruction.One major problem with cases of positional asphyxia is that those involved in restraining somebody, however well trained, may be completely unaware that their actions have directly contributed to the problem.Ironically the Met police became a world authority on the dangers of positional asphyxia after the case of Roger Sylvester who died in their custody in 1999. As a result the Met and the prison service understand the problem far more than most. G4s say their escort staff also receive specialist training in restraint techniques.But the record of private security guards in carrying out deportations has been a matter of dispute almost since the Joy Gardner case. A 2005 investigation by the prisons and probation ombudsman noted the potential for abuse and the need for robust management and more effective monitoring.A dossier of over 300 incidents, Outsourcing Abuse, alleging systemic abuse of deportees was investigated by a former independent Northern Ireland police ombudsman. In her report published in March this year Dame Nuala O'Loan rejected the claim of "systemic abuse" saying there was no pattern of inappropriate force by any individual. However she did criticise the UK Border Agency for failing to investigate complaints of abusive treatment properly. Three cases had involved serious injuries including a punctured lung, a broken finger and a dislocated knee. Dame Nuala said the private companies involved had failed to properly manage the use of violent restraint techniques by their staff. In particular staff in some cases had failed to consider whether the use of force was "proportionate and necessary".This conclusion was backed up by a separate investigation into the behaviour of immigration escort staff by Dame Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, who voiced concerns over the variable practice of different staff during the inevitably stressful and distressing process. Most staff behaved appropriately but some acted in a way that aggravated the situation without concern for the welfare of the detainee or indeed whether the removal would actually succeed.As Dame Anne put it: "These extremes were evident in the same escort team. One officer was impatient and aggressive, inflaming the situation so there was swift resort to the use of force; while another recovered the situation quietly and calmly by talking to the detainee on the plane and sorting out the practical problem that he was concerned about."