William Hague last night tried to give greater credibility to the Conservative assault on crime in the wake of the Damiola Taylor murder by promising for the first time to match planned government spending increases in the police budget.The commitment came as Mr Hague and Tony Blair clashed over falling police numbers at prime minister's questions. Mr Hague accused Mr Blair of being "tough on crime fighters", rather than on the causes of crime. The prime minister held back from directly accusing Mr Hague of racism, or of playing the race card, but sparked Tory outrage by accusing the opposition leader of being guilty of opportunism over Damiola's death. With tempers fraying, Mr Hague warned of a crisis in morale in the police service, reflected by a fall of 3,000 in officer numbers since Labour came to power. The Conservative leader told Mr Blair: "If you think we are going to be proposing a cut in the police budget, you are off your head." Tory sources acknowledged Mr Hague's spending pledge follows pressure from Ann Widdecombe, shadow home secretary, who has been discomfited in her attacks on Jack Straw's crime policies by her inability to pledge matched spending on the police budget. However, the new pledge severely reduces the options for Michael Portillo, the shadow chancellor, as he struggles to meet his commitment to find £8bn annual cuts in overall government spending within three years. So far Mr Portillo has located only £5.6bn worth of cuts. In a further sign of the pressure on Mr Portillo, the shadow defence secretary, Iain Duncan-Smith, yesterday signalled he was also locked in a tough talks with the shadow chancellor over defence spending. He said on BBC radio yesterday that because of increasing commitments the Tories would have to "look seriously at increasing defence spending". During yesterday's Commons exchanges Mr Blair confirmed that almost 27,000 prisoners had been released early under Labour's electronic tagging scheme, including 1,000 who had gone on to commit other offences. Tory strategists believe the 3,000 cut in police numbers since the election, the recent rise in robbery and the example of 1,000 crimes committed by prisoners on early release add up to a powerful cocktail with which to hit the government. Ministers are pinning their hope on a fall in violent crime figures due to be released in mid-January. They also hope figures in March will show a slight rise in police recruits.