Police investigating the murders of a woman and a teenage girl 40 years ago have launched a fresh appeal for information.Eve Stratford, 22, who worked at London’s Playboy club, was found with her throat slashed at her home in Leyton, east London, on the evening of 18 March 1975.Six months later, on 3 September, 16-year-old Lynne Weedon was attacked and raped in an alleyway near her home in Hounslow, west London, as she returned from a night out with friends. She was found barely alive at an electricity sub-station the next morning and died a week later.The murders were linked in 2004 after a DNA match was found in samples taken from the victims, who were not thought to have known each other. Lynne’s mother, Margaret Weedon, has made a plea for information as the anniversary of her daughter’s death approaches. “It has been 40 years since our beautiful young daughter Lynne was violently taken from us. 1975 seems so long ago and it is,” Weedon said.“40 years without her. We have missed out on so much; she missed out on life, no relationship or marriage, no career or children or even just travelling the world, all taken from her. We are left 40 years on always wondering what it would have been like – a true life sentence.”The teenager is believed to have been followed home from the Great Western Road into an alleyway called The Short Hedges, where she was hit with a blunt instrument and thrown over the sub-station fence. Her attacker then raped her before leaving the scene.Weedon said: “We are well aware that whoever murdered Lynne also murdered Eve Stratford. That young lady also had her life snubbed out. Her family have died now. Another true life sentence.”Stratford was last seen walking alone near her home in Lyndhurst Drive, Leyton, shortly before 4pm on a snowy day in March. She was found dead with her hands tied by a scarf in the bedroom of her flat at 5.30pm. Her neck had been cut almost a dozen times.An hour before she was found, a neighbour heard a male and female voice talking, apparently calmly, in Eve’s flat. There was no sign of forced entry to the property. DCI Noel McHugh said the suspect for both murders was likely now to be in his 60s or 70s. He added: “The man who carried out these murders is now of a different, older generation. I would imagine he must have reflected upon his actions every day over the past 40 years.“It’s inconceivable the killer of Eve and Lynne has kept the perfect secret for 40 years. It’s a heavy burden to carry and he must have let details slip over the years – maybe to a partner, a friend, even a cellmate – and I would appeal to anyone with information to contact us.”Police believe that the killer would have known the Hounslow area. The alleyway and sub-station where Lynne was found were away from busy areas, meaning her screams would not have been heard.Weedon said: “I will make a mother’s plea for anyone who can tell us some information about the person who took my daughter and Eve Stratford’s lives to come forward. Please, please give us some sort of closure.”Anyone with information is asked to call the incident room on 020 8785 8099 or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.