More than a dozen alleged victims of child sexual abuse have come forward after police announced they would re-investigate abuse claims from the 1970s and 80s at a County Durham detention centre for teenage boys.The development follows an investigation by the Guardian that revealed a prison officer at the centre, Neville Husband, may have abused hundreds of detainees over a 17-year period.The investigation will examine claims that the police covered up complaints of abuse made by victims after they were released from detention. Durham police appealed for victims who had not come forward previously to do so now.Previous investigations carried out by Durham Constabulary in 2002 and 2005 resulted in two men being jailed for crimes committed at Medomsley detention centre near Consett on young men who had been placed in the unit.Husband, the main perpetrator, was in charge of the kitchens at the centre and abused boys on a daily basis. He was eventually jailed for 10 years and left prison in 2009. He died the following year.Another member of staff, storeman Leslie Johnson, was jailed for six years for abusing a detainee. At his trial, Johnson said he had been "given a boy" by Husband. Johnson also died after being released from prison.Following the Guardian report, another victim, John McCabe, contacted the paper and said he had been abused by Husband, on and off the premises at Medomsley. He said he had been raped by another man at a location Husband had taken him to.The Guardian's investigation revealed that another detained teenager, Kevin Young, said he had been taken to Husband's house in 1977, ligatured and blindfolded and raped by three men.On the day of his release, Young went to Consett police station and reported Husband's abuse. He said he showed a police officer the ligature marks on his neck, but was told it was a criminal offence to make such allegations against a prison officer.Durham police later confirmed that Young's complaint had not been acted on.Det Supt Paul Goudray, head of Durham police safeguarding unit, said: "This investigation will put victims at the heart of the inquiry … We would like to hear from anyone who has new information about Medomsley and the abuse that occurred both inside and when inmates were taken off-site.spokesman for Durham police said more than a dozen men, who were not previously known to the investigators, had come forward with allegations of abuse at Medomsley detention centre and that specialist staff were on duty to answer the calls.Young, now 53 and living in York, said that the victims have been asking for a full inquiry for years. "Nobody listened to us. I hope the police do the job now," he said.Solicitor David Greenwood, who acts for some of Husband's alleged victims, said that since he took the cases on in 2003, he had been concerned at the failure by the Ministry of Justice to carry out a proper investigation into the abuse carried out by Husband."I welcome the pledge by the police to carry out a full inquiry into the abuse and the subsequent cover-up," he said.