John PodmoreGovernor, Brixton prisonI not only agree with Charles Clarke but for the last two-and-a-half years that I have been here, I have been trying to make Brixton a community prison. We are in the heart of an urban area and holding people from this area, so it's impossible to do things on our own. We are working with the local drug action teams, primary care trust, the local authority. I used to be governor of Swaledale prison on the Isle of Sheppey, a remote place where 60% of the prisoners were from London. That creates huge problems in terms of keeping in touch with families and being engaged with the outside world. We now have the situation where some long-term prisoners from London are actually finishing their sentence in Brixton as it's closer to their local community.Juliet LyonChief executive, Prison Reform TrustCommunity prisons are a partial solution to a complex problem. Establishing a network, linking people in custody with real jobs, decent housing and the support of family and friends on the outside would help to cut re-offending rates and establish a more humane and effective prison system. But they would not solve, and might feed into, the misuse of our overcrowded prisons as a gateway to drug treatment, basic skills training or mental healthcare. The home secretary only stands a chance of reforming prisons if he can reserve them for serious and violent offenders. To reconfigure a system already strained to bursting point, he must avoid yet more mandatory penalties, new offence categories, unnecessary remands and recalls, and instead develop public and judicial confidence in preventative and restorative work, fines and supervised community sentences.Colin MosesNational chair, Prison Officers' AssociationI welcome the idea, but Charles Clarke left a lot of unanswered questions, such as how we are supposed to get so many prisoners who are in prisons in rural settings back to their communities? For example, Wealstone prison in Yorkshire has a lot of Geordie prisoners; and there isn't a category C prison in London so most London prisoners go to the Isle of Wight. Will prisoners have to be downgraded to get them moved to somewhere local? We also have the problem that in most male prisons there is around 98% occupancy anyway, so there is little room for manoeuvre.Eric AllisonPrisons correspondent, the Guardian Prisoners come from the community -and will return there on release - so it makes sense to involve the community in the prison process. In a perfect prison world, each and every jail would only hold people from within a short catchment area. There is massive evidence to show that strong family ties are by far the biggest factor in persuading offenders to mend their ways. So let's make it easy for families to visit. (At present, most prisoners are held at least 50 miles away from their families.) Community jails would be staffed by local people and supported, in house, by local agencies, social services, housing, employment drug and alcohol prevention groups and local doctors and nurses. Colleges and employers would be encouraged to offer courses and jobs to inmates nearing the end of their sentences, and all prisoners would be allowed periods of home leave to maintain the social fabric of their lives.Frances CrookDirector, Howard League for Penal ReformCharles Clarke suggests two mutually incompatible propositions: he will lift the cap on numbers so that within a couple of years we could have more than 80,000 men, women and children incarcerated; and at the same time he wants "community" prisons. In order to be part of the community, staff must spend time and resources creating links with business and voluntary agencies. Prisoners must have time with families. This is impossible when there are thousands of prisoners going in and out every day, and most prisons are grossly overcrowded. Prisons are currently dumping grounds for alcoholics and drug abusers, the weak, vulnerable and difficult. They should be in the community, not in prison, where they can be helped to change their lives.Cathy StancerDirector, Women in PrisonsThe current situation means many agencies struggle with the logistics of, for example, resettling a woman whose children are in London and who wants to find housing there, but who is serving her sentence in Yorkshire. Women fare worse because there are relatively few women's prisons. Holding prisoners close to home makes sense. But our proviso is that only women who pose a risk to public safety should end up in custody at all. Community prisons are not benign; women would still lose their tenancies and children's lives would still be disrupted.Erwin JamesFormer prisoner and Guardian columnistIt came as no surprise that Charles Clarke's big idea of "community prisons" fell flat among those who understand the problems in our prison system. The idea was first suggested in the Woolf report following the Strangeways riot in 1990. It might have worked then, when prison numbers were low enough for it to be practical, but not any more. If the Home Office is serious about wanting to help prisoners maintain family ties, it should focus on visiting conditions. Too often prison visits are traumatic experiences usually because of delays in getting prisoners to the visits hall. "Family days", where families are allowed to spend several hours with their loved one in an informal prison setting, such as the gym or the education department, have proved successful. Let's have more. And how about dedicated visits managers, accountable to the Independent Monitoring Board and the prison governor?Deborah ColesCo-director, InquestWhile community prisons might be a good idea, the starting point is all wrong. We need a dramatic reduction in the number of people in prison, and once that has happened we can look at the whole issue of where it is appropriate to detain people. Community prisons may be one solution but it may be that we need more community-based alternatives to custody. At the same time, we are seeing breaches of antisocial behaviour orders leading to more young people in prison rather than keeping them out - as they were designed to.