The only person to be rescued from Morecambe Bay on the night when at least 21 cockle pickers drowned had been on his first night in the job, a jury heard today.The trial of five people involved in the death of the Chinese immigrants last year saw dramatic footage of survivor Li Hua waving frantically to a rescue helicopter.He had been at the cockle pickers' Liverpool base for only a few days when the tragedy happened on February 5 last year.His only friend in the UK, 41-year-old Xie Xiao Wen, died when severe weather and rising tides engulfed Hest Bank, where a team of more than 30 Chinese had been digging for shellfish in the dark.Prosecutor Tim Holroyde QC told Preston crown court how Mr Li had struggled to save the friend, whom he called Brother Wen, after returning to shore because it was too cold and dark to work."His mobile was called by Brother Wen, who said he was stuck in the sea," he said. "Li Hua, who can swim, ran to try to rescue him. He swam across the first channel and was trying to swim the second channel to get to his friend when the waves became too big for him to go any further."He went to a higher area of sand, Priest Skear, which became smaller and smaller as the sea closed in. Then a helicopter arrived and shone a light on him, and he was rescued by the lifeboat. "You will see how little of Priest Skear was still visible by the time he was saved. Brother Wen had been less fortunate, and had drowned."The court also heard how four other survivors swam for their lives after the pickup truck they had been using to drive out across the mudflats became stuck in a water channel. Five other people in the same truck perished."They all removed their waterproof clothing, jumped into the water, and tried to swim or struggle back to the shore," Mr Holroyde said."It seems that one group went in one direction and was able to make it back to safety. The others took a different direction and drowned." The alleged gangmaster of the cockle pickers, 29-year-old Lin Liang Ren, denies 21 charges of manslaughter.The bodies of 18 men and three women were found in Morecambe Bay after the incident, and a further two bodies are thought to have never been recovered.Earlier, the court was told how Mr Lin procured food and accommodation for the workers and bought vehicles, waterproof clothing and tools for them to dig the molluscs out of the mudflats.The cockle pickers were entirely dependant upon their employers, Mr Holroyde said."They wanted to work, to earn money to repay the debts they had incurred in getting to this country, and to send money back to their families in China," he said."But they were in a very vulnerable position for obvious reasons. They were at the bottom of the hierarchy ... dependent on others for their livelihood. "Many were from a farming background in China and had no experience or knowledge of the tide. Some had never even seen the sea until they first went cockle picking. Some could swim and some could not, but no one ever asked about this."One survivor from the pickup truck, Weng Zhang Yu, had tried to climb inside the minibus that had brought the cockle pickers to Morecambe Bay, but Mr Lin ordered him to get out, the court heard.Mr Holroyde said the cocklers had drowned because they had relied on Mr Lin for instructions about the tides that were never given. The spring tide came in quickly that night, rising to nearly nine metres by 11.20pm.Local cockler Trevor Fleming had no difficulty getting off the sands in time and was on his way home as the Chinese started work, Mr Holroyde said. "Because there was so little time left for safe working, Trevor Fleming tried to speak to one of the Chinese, but got no response," he added."One of his team, Kevin Lewis, says they tapped their watches as they passed the Chinese to draw attention to the time."The court also heard of panicked phone calls made by several of those involved in the cockle picking operation as the extent of the disaster became clear.Mr Lin's cousin Lin Mu Yong was on the way to the bay with his girlfriend, Janie Bannister, and Mr Lin's girlfriend, Zhao Xiao Qing, when they received a call from Mr Lin saying what had happened.Ms Bannister called the emergency services at 9.17pm. "I've got a load of Chinese boys in Morecambe Bay and they're stuck," she said."They've got to get out. There is going to be at least 30 men out there," she said. Ten minutes later, she called back to say that the water was up to the men's waists.Tony Eden Jr, who had a business with his father buying cockles from the Chinese team, called the coastguard at 10.46pm saying he had just heard of the incident. "All these people, they all sort of work for me," he said.Charges of facilitating illegal immigration have been denied by Mr Lin, Zhao Xiao Qing, Lin Mu Yong, Tony Eden Jr and his father, Tony Eden Sr. Mr Lin and Ms Zhao also deny perverting the course of justice. The case continues.