Brian Paddick lives just along the Thames from a very different mayoral nearly man, Jeffrey Archer. Both the flamboyant former Tory chairman and the studiedly unshowy Paddick, who hopes to be the Lib Dem candidate again next year, have been slightly wistful spectators this week. While Archer tweeted that the riots made him want to be mayor of London, Paddick must have wished he had the job even more fervently. It would be hard to find a better-qualified candidate to sort out the looting and policing crisis than the former inner-city commander who helped revive relations between public and police in Brixton after the 1981 riots."I would have certainly been in my element," nods Paddick. "I would have been in Tottenham on Saturday night or first thing in the morning on Sunday. For Boris Johnson to turn up three days late brandishing a broom is not the sort of authority needed in these circumstances – in my humble opinion."Instead, Paddick has been called upon to offer his expert commentary to various media outlets. This long week of punditry perhaps explains why Paddick, who is a fit 53 and is hurriedly finishing his microwave lunch when we arrive, makes a bit of a meal of having his photo taken. In the four years since he escaped from the Metropolitan Police, he has searched for a public role in which he can put his experience to good use. Still morphing from policeman into politician, he is an intriguing blend of buttoned-up and let-it-all-hang-out: businesslike to the point of terse at times, but willing to go on I'm A Celebrity and happy to be interviewed at home.His modern apartment is immaculate, apart from washing (not dirty) strewn across his bed. Our photographer soon spots a spectacular photomontage in his living room depicting a sky filled with a white horse, a blonde woman and two dozen muscular, near-naked men. Paddick's husband, Petter Belsvik, a Norwegian engineer he met in Ibiza and married in 2009, choose it, but Paddick is wary about sitting in front of it."I'm not sure about being photographed against a backdrop of naked men," he says primly.Making conversation, the photographer mentions that some figures in the picture are the same man."I hadn't noticed. Anyway, I don't really have time for that," he snaps; nor will he perch on his glossy white sideboard for a portrait because it is not strong enough. Did you build it yourself? I never trust furniture I assemble myself, I joke. "No," says Paddick flatly.You can tell a sense of humour loiters within by the fact that on this sideboard stands a figurine of the Queen, who waves a white-gloved hand thanks to her solar-powered handbag. But today Paddick is more suspicious cop than relaxed politician. After 30 years in the Met, he still constructs his sentences with the pedantic care of a sergeant entering a crime into a little black notebook. Alongside this slightly circuitous precision, however, he also has a police officer's attractive habit of answering questions very directly.As the riots spread across London at the start of the week, police tried to contain disturbances and arrest afterwards using CCTV evidence. Was this wrong? "Yes," says Paddick. "The reason we've seen such widespread rioting is simply because people believed they could go out there, do what they want and get away with it. If the police had acted robustly and quickly on Saturday night then we might not have seen the copycat violence all over the country."Four years retired, Paddick remains remarkably relevant to the Met's current predicament. The grandson of a policeman, he climbed the ranks to become commander of Lambeth, south London, where he famously initiated a pilot in which officers cautioned, rather than arrested, those in possession of cannabis. Despite falling victim to untrue tabloid stories and probably having his phone tapped, Paddick became deputy assistant commissioner, the most senior gay police officer in the country. His rise was halted when he revealed, five hours after Jean Charles de Menezes was shot dead by armed police at Stockwell tube in 2005, that senior officers had known he was carrying a Brazilian passport, and was therefore unlikely to have been a suicide bomber.The police's release of misleading tales to the media following the death of an innocent man has become a familiar pattern. It was repeated when newspaper seller Ian Tomlinson died after being shoved to the ground by a police officer during the 2009 G20 protests. Then, nine days ago, when Mark Duggan was shot dead by police in Tottenham, police accounts told of a shootout with Duggan, and an officer's life freakishly saved when a bullet lodged in his police radio. There was a wearying inevitability about the Independent Police Complaints Commission announcing this week that in fact the bullet in the radio was police issue, and a non-police weapon retrieved from the scene was not fired.Paddick "completely" agrees these inaccurate accounts disastrously undermine public confidence in the police. "There is still this belief among some senior officers that it's better to cover up than own up. The trouble with that is usually people find out, and then it looks twice as bad," he says.How do you tackle that culture? Is it institutional? "Well, if it's institutional it didn't persuade me. I told the IPCC exactly what I knew on the day of the shooting of de Menezes, and as a consequence I was sidelined and eventually pushed out. That's what happens with people who aren't institutionalised."Paddick seems scarred by his experience in the Met hierarchy and, unsurprisingly, has no friends left there. Witheringly critical about former boss Ian Blair, Paddick believes he was briefed against by the Met's communications chief Dick Fedorcio. Blimey, I say, the Met sounds like a box of snakes. "Absolutely. It is," nods Paddick.Paddick does not think the power vacuum created by the resignations of Met commissioner Sir Paul Stephenson – an appointment he presciently criticised – and assistant commissioner John Yates over the phone hacking scandal contributed to a failure to combat looting. But his critique of the boss class is more fundamental than simply pinpointing tactical failures and an inadequate use of Twitter and BlackBerry Messenger. Public order policing is not part of an officer's routine duties, but volunteered for. And the rank-and-file have stopped volunteering in droves, says Paddick, "because they felt if they did go in and do what the public wanted, which was pretty tough policing, they would end up under investigation or subject to complaints". He does not accept the rightwing critique that our rights-based culture means troublemakers have lost fear of the police, but believes ordinary officers worry "they would not be supported by their bosses when it came to complaints. So it's a loss of confidence in the hierarchy more than anything."There is a tension between loss of faith in the police and the desire for tougher policing expressed this week. It is a hard time to be liberal. Paddick declares he is, none the less: "I agree that providing people don't harm other people, they should be allowed to do more or less what they want. The people on the streets this week were hurting a lot of people, and that puts them in play. Even though I'm a liberal, the police should've gone in much harder."There is always "a fine line between robust police action and reasonable force and unreasonable and criminal assault", he says – but reasonable force for Paddick is not what you might expect of a liberal Lib Dem. Like former Northern Ireland chief constable Sir Hugh Orde (Paddick's choice for next Met commissioner), he has no time for the idea that unwieldy water canons could confront a mobile mob. It would be "like an elephant with a bucket of water". But Paddick has argued in favour of kettling and, most controversially, believes plastic bullets would quickly stop the rioting looters. "These are people who, if you say 'Boo' to them loudly enough, will run away. If you've got a crowd intent on looting and someone levels a plastic baton-round gun at them, they'll run a mile. That is upping the ante to a level where they don't want to play any more," he says.Does he have concerns about the 17 deaths from plastic bullets in Northern Ireland? "Sure," he nods. "Every tactic, as we saw with Tomlinson, carries a risk of people getting hurt." Plastic bullets, Paddick explains, can only be used with the Met commissioner's approval in situations where police are overwhelmed. Their deployment must follow oral and written warnings on banners "and then people can absent themselves".If the purging of his old enemies from the Met over the phone hacking scandal gives him satisfaction, Paddick is not revealing it. He does not know for sure his phone was hacked, but lawyers have told him that News of the World private investigator Glenn Mulcaire had his name, address, mobile number and details of his ex-partner. Then there was a mysterious story in the Mirror about Paddick "boasting" to colleagues about a £3,000 watch. Paddick says he told no workmates about it, but had received voice messages from his bank about the transaction. And so he has joined a supergroup of complainants, including John Prescott and Labour MP Chris Bryant, behind a judicial review against the Met. Later this year the courts will rule on whether the Met failed to properly investigate phone hacking.Yesterday was the deadline for applications to be the new Met commissioner. Paddick's will not have been on the home secretary's doormat. Instead, he wants to become the Lib Dem's London mayoral candidate. He was a little overawed when he ran last time. "I went straight from being in the police to running for mayor. Obviously I knew who Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson were. They were billed as political giants and I was a complete novice, and therefore the thought of going up against them was a daunting one." The more the campaign went on, the more fallibly human he realised they were. "By the end I wasn't frightened of them at all."This time he has more experience and is standing because he wants to serve London, and thinks he can do better than his Lib Dem rivals, who include Lembit Opik and Lib Dem London Assembly member Mike Tuffrey.When the Oslo bomb went off, followed by the shooting spree that killed 69 last month, Petter and his mother and sister felt the explosion. "My husband and his family just got on a bus and went home," says Paddick. "People were very Norwegian about it. They are not emotional, volatile people. They are very logical and reasonable and that's how they dealt with it." Paddick is so tidy, self-controlled and apparently calm that I wonder if he is a little bit Norwegian? Finally he laughs out loud. "Absolutely not," he says. "What I have realised, and what the police suppressed for 30 years, is that I am a very passionate guy." Petter and he were brought up in similar families, where both parents worked hard "so there wasn't much time for affection," he explains. "Petter dealt with it in a very Norwegian way, which was to be happy with your own company and sort out problems yourself. I kicked and screamed and shouted until I got some attention, and I've not given up since."