The World Football Cup - the Jules Rimet Trophy, of gold about 10in. high, and insured for £30,000 - was stolen yesterday from a building in the heart of London occupied by more than three hundred hymn-singing Methodists.In the room from which the cup was stolen there were “between two and four” private security guards. Commenting on the affair last night, the man responsible for the cup’s exhibition, said: “Nothing went wrong. It was just stolen.”Mr Denis Follows, secretary of the Football Association, described the theft as “most distressing” and said it cast “quite a cloud over our preparations for the World Cup.”The theft occurred between 11 a.m. and noon from the Central Hall, Westminster. The Cup was coyly exposed to cameramen on Friday when it was put on show in a philatelic exhibition there. On Saturday night the security guards were locked in with the cup and stamps worth £3 millions.Coming to lifeAt 10 a.m. yesterday a serving hand from a coffee stall near by strolled into the back of the building. He entered by the rear door and, after using the lavatory made his way out again. It was, he said, all very quiet.By 11 a.m. Parliament Square was coming to life. Some 250 Methodists entered the front of the building, lustily to sing in the Great Hall such lines as “Yet when Thou dost accept their gold, Lord, treasure up my mite.” They were led by an organ and a choir of 80.The two rear entrances were also busy. It was Mothering Sunday and some 40 parents and offspring had just arrived (by the same door as the thief) for a separate service. As the singing began a security man saw that the cup was still safely in its glass case surrounded by blue silk and paper rosettes representing nations which have won the trophy.Anxious to see manLingering near the doors to the exhibition was “a man in his late thirties 5ft 10in tall, of slim build and sallow complexion, with dark, possibly black hair, greased, wearing a dark suit.” Detective Chief Inspector William Little, of Scotland Yard, is anxious to interview this man.An hour later, the worshippers were marching back into the sunshine and a security guard was registering the sort of emotion that only a man can who has just been robbed of the World Cup. The front of the showcase was intact, but there was no cup. Only one rosette was dislodged.He and his colleagues were soon given an opportunity to express their thoughts to their eight or nine police officers who arrived within minutes.The police discovered that the doors to the exhibition hall had been secured on the outside by a padlock and chain, and opened as soon as three screws holding a brass door handle to the door were removed. The back of the display cabinet was guarded by a simple padlock and staple. This, too, had been removed with equal facility and silence.Last night, Mr Cecil Richardson, chairman of the exhibition committee and a stamp auction agent, expressed his sincere regret that such a catastrophe should have occurred while the cup was “in our custody for the first time.” He said: “The security precautions were such that a personal observation, a personal guard, was put on this cup almost from before it arrived until, unfortunately, the moment it left.” He suggested that the theft must have occurred during “an aversion of human eyes.” The exhibition was on two floors in a large hall and there were “at least two to four guards circulating the hall at the time.”It would only take a moment to steal the World Cup. “We will get this thing back,” he went on. “I don’t doubt that. I don’t think we need to worry about this. I think this is a symbolic capture.”Lucky crank?Police think the raid may be the work of a lucky crank who, when he saw chains on the exhibition doors, had no reason to believe that security guards were on the other side . The “Royal” part of London is one which some detectives regard with professional distaste for the very reason that it is crank prone.Those making security arrangements for the World Cup series which begins here in July must be perturbed about what has happened. They have gone to improbable lengths to anticipate the criminal gambits possible in a situation involving 100,000 foreign visitors and tickets costing anything up to £25 15s each.The security of the cup itself was the first and most obvious problem. Never can the cry “We was robbed” have been uttered with more anguish.The cup was found by Pickles, a dog being taken out for a walk, on 27 March 1966.