A railway worker accused of a "campaign of rape" told police he "was not going to see the light of day for this", a jury at Maidstone crown court was told yesterday.Antoni Imiela, 49, denies nine counts of rape against girls and women aged from 10 to 52 across the south-east and the kidnap, indecent assault and attempted rape of a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham. Mr Imiela, from Appledore, Kent, was arrested when his DNA profile matched that of semen recovered from a victim, the jury was told. Mark Dennis QC, for the prosecution, said that the defendant had refused to answer questions about the allegations in police interviews. But when allowed to take a cigarette break, he told an officer: "I'm not going to see the light of day for this, am I?", Mr Dennis said. The QC said: "You may think that is hardly the reaction of a man just arrested for a crime of which he was wholly innocent." The court watched a video of police interviews with the first victim, a 10-year-old girl, who clung to a soft toy as she described how her attacker abducted her from outside a youth club in Ashford, Kent, in November 2001. "I go, 'Please don't do anything to me, I'm innocent.' He said 'Yeah, I know you are and if you shut up I won't hurt you,'" she said. He threatened to break her legs or kill her if she did not comply. "I said 'I'm only 10 years old ... I'm too young for you.' He said, 'No, you're not,'" she said. The girl described her ordeal and how she eventually fled to the nearest house after her assailant had left. The householder who took her in described her as "a broken little girl" who begged her not to call police because the rapist would kill her. Earlier, Mr Dennis said there was no doubt the victims had been attacked. The real question was whether the defendant was responsible. He also referred to "compelling" forensic evidence. Scientists not only found matches or partial matches between Mr Imiela's DNA profile and samples taken from victims, but also between fibres from his clothing and home and those found on victims. Two hairs from the final victim, the 10-year-old girl attacked in Birmingham in November 2002, were also found in the defendant's car, Mr Dennis said. The case continues.