Fleet Street editors last night welcomed the changes to the injunction taken against their newspapers after condemning the Government's earlier action as heavy-handed and hypocritical.They described the Government's U-turn as a victory for freedom of information but criticised ministers for their willingness to leak stories when it suited them and suppress stories when it did not.Alan Rusbridger, editor of the Guardian, said last night: "While it is understandable that the Lawrence family in particular would have preferred to see the whole report published rather than selectively leaked that cannot possibly justify the Government's heavy-handed attempt to injunct a newspaper."It has been a hard-fought principle over centuries that governments should not have prior restraint over the press and it was both stupid and wrong of Jack Straw to seek it on this occasion."The shadow home secretary, Sir Norman Fowler, said the lifting of the ban was a humiliating defeat for the Government and that it had been forced to climb down.He said: "The Government should never have taken this to a judge and sought an injunction in the way that they did. They acted in an arbitrary and a high-handed manner and they came a cropper. They deserved to do so."Last night, Chief Superintendent Des Parkinson, national secretary of the Police Superintendents' Association for England and Wales, also welcomed the lifting of the injunction. "We are pleased that it has been lifted. We were sad that it [the report] came out in the way that it did. But I think it causes major concern about security in the Home Office that the most important report for years has been allowed to be leaked in this way," he said. "We would ask the question of the Home Secretary whether he wants the Metropolitan Police to come and review his security."Paul Cavadino, director of policy of the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders, said: "It is clear from the details published today that the Macpherson report will be a watershed in the way the criminal justice process treats black people."John Wadham, director of Liberty, the civil rights campaign group, said the Home Secretary had not made any concession because the decision was in line with the European Court of Human Rights. "Once material is in the public domain, you cannot stop it being published."The Home Office said the injunction had been taken to protect the Lawrence family. A spokesman for the family quoted in the later editions of the Sunday Telegraph, however, said the family had no objections to the original story and the publication of the detail of the report.Last night a Home Office spokesman said: "It is Mr Straw's firm belief that the partial leaking of the report was unfair to the Lawrences, the police and to Parliament."The principle is upheld by the maintenance of the injunction against publication of any further material from the report. [The] variation of the injunction represents no more than a recognition of the practicalities of the situation, namely that some of the report's contents are now in the public domain. But clearly the principle that the report should not have been disclosed remains intact."The statement added that Mr Straw would be making no comment on the contents of the report until it is officially published on Wednesday. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Alan Beith, said: "The partial lifting of the injunction reflects the reality that this information is now public. Nevertheless, the decision to seek it in the first place was an understandable attempt by the Government to ensure that the report was considered first by Parliament and seen as a whole."