A young boy told the Rhys Jones murder trial today he had seen a hooded gunman on a bike in the seconds before and after the 11-year-old was shot.Rhys was gunned down on August 22 last year as he crossed the front car park of the Fir Tree pub in Croxteth, Liverpool. The 14-year-old witness, who cannot be identified, was sitting with a friend in a tree behind the pub where Rhys was killed on his way home from football practice. In a taped police interview played to the jury, the witness said he had seen "a lad of about 13 or 14" dressed in a shiny black tracksuit, trainers and woollen hoodie, cycling past on a black BMX bike. Describing the events that followed, he said: "He went around the side of the pub and about three seconds after we lost sight of him we heard the shots." Initially the boy thought the shots were from a cap gun, describing the three gunshots as "high pitched".Seconds later the boy saw the same hooded cyclist pedalling past at speed."He was trying to put something in his pocket and wobbled his bike and went on to the grass," he said. The witness and his friend climbed down from the tree and ran to the front of the pub, where bystanders tried to shield them from the murder scene. Describing the chaos, he said: "All the people were screaming: 'He's been shot!'"On seeing a young boy lying on the ground in a pool of blood, his friend burst into tears, crying: "No, no, no."At that stage the witness did not realise the victim was Rhys, having mistaken his shinpads for those of another friend.The boy knew the 11-year-old, having played against his team in the same football league. He had been watching Rhys and his team at football practice a short while earlier.The prosecution claims Sean Mercer, 18, killed Rhys when he fired three shots across the car park. He was said to be aiming at members of a rival gang who had strayed on to his territory.The second bullet, the jury has been told, struck Rhys in the neck and the youngster died in his mother Melanie's arms a short time later. Mercer, a member of the Croxteth Crew gang, denies murder.  James Yates, 20, of Dodman Road, Croxteth, Gary Kays, 25, of Mallard Close, and Melvin Coy, 24, of Abbeyfield Drive, both West Derby, Liverpool, are accused of assisting an offender, alongside two boys aged 16 and 17, who cannot be identified. A second 17-year-old boy has been charged with assisting an offender and possessing a firearm and ammunition. All deny the charges.