A miniature Smirnoff vodka bottle sent to a journalist contained a lethal dose of caustic soda and a message claiming that a Scottish terrorist organisation wanted "to kill English people at random and with no discrimination or compunction", a court heard yesterday.The note also contained a threat that the Scottish National Liberation Army would poison England's water supplies if the English did not withdraw from Scotland. A Vladivar miniature, similarly poisoned, was sent to the town hall in Blackburn, Lancashire, with a note from "Tom" urging a local councillor to "have a drink on me" after his success in a local election.Wayne Cook, 45, of Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, denies two charges brought under the 2001 Anti-Terrorism Crime and Security Act. He pleads not guilty to sending packages "containing a noxious substance or other noxious thing" to Myra Philp of the Scottish Daily Express and Blackburn councillor John Wright in April last year. Steven Robinson, 43, has already admitted the charges.Paul Taylor, prosecuting, told Manchester crown court that caustic soda was a corrosive alkaline. "If swallowed it will cause burning and internal trauma. Caustic soda, if you swallow it, can kill you." He read the note enclosed with a Smirnoff miniature sent to Philp, who had written about the SNLA and been threatened by the group: "Dear Myra: Exclusive. The bottle is full of lethal caustic soda. Any chemist will immediately confirm this by a simple test. A very large number of similarly poisoned items have just been sent to political figures all over England. An example is Councillor John Wright, who will be getting his at the town hall, King William Street, Blackburn. Perhaps you might warn him?"We want to demonstrate our intent to kill English people at random and with no discrimination or compunction. This is necessary to convince the British government that we will lethally poison England's water supplies if [the English] do not withdraw totally from Scotland.""[The SNLA is] a terrorist organisation," said Taylor. "Their objective was to be achieved not by democratic means but by threats of mass murder."He said Cook would admit that he played a part in sending the packages but deny that he knew harmful substances had been put in the bottles.The court heard that Robinson bought the Vladivar and Cook the Smirnoff at shops in Tyldesley. Both bottles were posted on April 25 in Jiffy-type bags with address labels typed in capitals on a manual typewriter.Suspicious Royal Mail staff at Blackburn's sorting office intercepted one package and contacted police. The other reached Philp, who also contacted the police. The court was told that counter-terrorism officers from Greater Manchester police arrested Robinson four days after the packets arrived. Cook "went on the run" and was arrested on May 14.The trial continues.