Derrick Bird's terrifying rampage is believed to have begun in the village of Lamplugh, on the edge of the Lake District, where his twin brother, David, and another brother, Bryan, lived.What happened there was not immediately clear, with reports that David was Bird's first victim. Police refused to confirm this, but would say the starting point of the killing spree was the brother's home. Last night Cumbria police issued a map showing Bird's presumed route, which took him from Lamplugh to the coastal town of Whitehaven, from where the first emergency calls were made shortly after 10.30am.Bird is known to have arrived at the Duke Street taxi rank, where he used to stand and joke with his fellow drivers, and shot dead at least one of them.Three hours later, 12 people were dead along a bloody 20-mile trail through west Cumbria. Victims were gunned down in town centres, in villages and in fields as Bird fired indiscriminately, often from his car window, during a frenzied journey which ended in a copse.Cumbria was paralysed as frantic police tracked him through the 999 calls flooding in: from Whitehaven to Egremont, Gosforth, Seascale and finally to the tiny hamlet of Boot, where the gunman crashed his car and then ended his life. Last night Bird's motive was still not clear, although local taxi drivers spoke of a row with colleagues on the rank the previous night.At 10.30am, taxi driver Darren Rewcastle, a colleague with whom Bird was often seen "having a craic" on the rank, was standing at his usual place, smoking a cigarette.Brian Edwards, a 67-year-old joiner, was working on flats above a nearby shop, when he heard shots. "There were four shots and I looked round to see the taxi driver on the pavement," he said."Seconds before, he had been standing in a doorway just 10 feet away from us – he was just blasted in the head by the gunman at point-blank range. Then a man carrying a rifle with a large telescopic sight on it ran past, just feet away and fired again."Over the next horrifying hours the death toll would mount and 11 people would end up in hospital, three of them in a critical condition, as Bird went on the rampage with two loaded weapons.Known as Birdy to his friends and neighbours, he is believed to have shot at three colleagues on the taxi rank before jumping into his taxi and driving off. Alan Hannah, 68, a retired accountant from Great Broughton, was turning into the street. when a car pulled up to his left, at the lights. "I saw a man with a large shotgun and his windscreen was smashed. I drove through the red light to get out of the way," he added, still shaken.By 11am Bird had reached Egremont, where he shot a man on a bridge, apparently at random. "There was a couple of cars on the bridge, so we just thought it had been a collision," said one woman. The victim was said to be a quiet retired man who enjoyed gardening and lived on his own about 50 yards away.Barrie Moss, cycling home from Egremont, came across Bird's taxi in the road with the door open. "There was a dumpy-looking guy looking up the hill. I thought maybe some kids had got a taxi home and done a runner and he was chasing them."Then he turned round and stared at me and he just had this absolutely huge sniper rifle. It was almost touching the floor, with a massive scope," he told the BBC. He thought it must be a toy, until Bird, 20 feet away, jumped into the car and drove off. "That's when I saw there was a woman lying on the floor, with bags of shopping."Witnesses said Bird had walked up to the woman and shot her at point-blank range. "Someone came out of a house and said there was a nutter going round shooting people. We could hear all the sirens. There was blood and everything," said Moss."She was still breathing, but she was unconscious," said Moss. He and another man cradled her and dialled 999. "Five minutes later she just stopped breathing, and that was it. He looked like a cheery uncle you see in a santa suit," he said of Bird. "It was so bizarre."Billy Boakes, 23, of Egremont, heard two shots. Running out of his house he discovered a woman's body. "She was just on the pavement with a couple of shopping bags in her hands," he said. Witnesses told him: "He stopped his car, got out of the car, got his gun out, went up to her and just shot her in the stomach." He believed the woman used to care for a disabled girl and thought she was in her 60s.At nearby Cringlethwaite, Gary Toomey, 38, found another victim bleeding on the his doorstep. "I saw a car screeching off and heard a man saying 'help me'. He was bleeding heavily from the side of his face," he told the local paper. "He said he had dived out of the way and the man in the car pointed the gun down and shot him again in the back from about six feet away as he lay on the floor."The scale of the incident became evident as the 999 calls flooded in.Police first confirmed at 12.18pm that "a number of people" had been injured in shootings. Whitehaven and Egremont were put on alert, supermarkets, banks, and offices closed, and people were warned to stay indoors. A description of a shaven-headed man driving a silver grey Citroen Picasso car was circulated. There were public announcements on radio and television.But by then Bird had killed again in Gosforth. A farmer in his early 30s, named locally as Garry Purdham, was trimming hedges with his uncle, when Bird drove past, wound down a window and simply blasted him.There followed reports of shootings in Seascale. John Reeves heard shots outside his house. "I looked at the gatepost and there was a chap who had been shot on his bike." The victim, believed to be 64-year-old Michael Pike, was wearing a high visibility jacket.Then a man in a Range Rover, Harry Berger, landlord of the Woolpack Inn in Boot, was shot through the window of his vehicle as he drove through the village. He suffered injuries to his arm.An elderly woman, said to be in her 70s, was also shot. "I've heard that he stopped the car and called her over. He wound down the window after beckoning her and then shot her," said Reeves. It is unclear whether she survived.By 12.41pm a photograph had been issued of Derrick Bird, from Rowrah near Frizington. Lockdown was declared across Ravenglass, Broughton-in-Furness, and Millom. Police helicopters were drafted in from neighbouring Lancashire, the RAF and the army. A full-scale manhunt was under way, using tracker dogs.In the hamlet of Boot, where campsites were full of half-term holidaymakers, the landlord of the Boot Inn, Sean King, received a warning from police that the gunman was heading that way. Witnesses had seen him crash, and head off into woods. Police warned: "Derrick Bird has abandoned his car in the Boot area and is now believed to be travelling by foot. Police who are in pursuit of him are urging members of the public in the Boot area to shelter indoors until further notice."Officers are also asking walkers and tourists in that area to be vigilant, take extra care and head indoors if at all possible."About 45 staff and customers crowded into the pub for safety."It was getting quite hot, because we didn't want to open the window because we had heard that he shot through windows," said King. "As far as we knew he was just randomly letting his gun off."By then, Radio Cumbria was reporting at least four people were feared dead.Inside the pub everyone was watching the news, when a shot rang out. "And then about 200 yards to the south of the pub we saw an air ambulance and then ambulances and police cars," he said. At 1.40pm, police discovered Bird's body.Mass shootingsHungerfordOn 19 August 1987 Michael Ryan, 27, went on the rampage in the Berkshire town of Hungerford, killing 16 people, including his mother and a police officer. Ryan, an unemployed labourer, was armed with a Kalashnikov, an automatic rifle, a pistol and at least one hand grenade. His first victim was a woman he shot dead while she was having a picnic with her children. He barricaded himself inside his old school before killing himself.DunblaneOn 13 March 1996 Thomas Hamilton, 43, forced his way past staff and into Dunblane primary school's gymnasium. Armed with four handguns he opened fire on the class of five- to six-year-olds, killing 16 children and their teacher who was trying to protect them. He then turned his gun on himself. Hamilton, 43, was a local man and former scout master.