The first 50 community support officers, a new type of policeman, will begin patrolling London today as part of the government's drive to provide a more visible official presence on the streets and tackle nuisance crime.The home secretary, David Blunkett, will announce that 27 of the 42 police forces in England and Wales have decided to employ the new type of officer and that more than 1,000 will be introduced over the next few months. The community support officers are not fully trained police officers but will be able to issue fixed penalty tickets for a range of antisocial behaviour, including public drunkenness, littering and graffiti. In six pilot areas, London, West Yorkshire, Lancashire, Northamptonshire, Gwent, and Devon and Cornwall, the new officers will also have the power to detain a suspect for 30 minutes until a sworn police officer arrives. The detention powers will be tested for two years before it is decided whether they should be adopted nationally. The new officers are employed directly by chief constables and will be subject to the new police complaints system. The decision to use the detention powers only on a trial basis followed several defeats Mr Blunkett's Police Reform Act faced during its passage through parliament. The new type of officer has been most enthusiastically embraced by the Metropolitan police, who hope to have 500 on London streets within months. They will do security patrols and complement existing community policing initiatives. In London there has been no shortage of recruits. The CSO jobs were advertised in May at £21,278 a year, including shift payments for flexible working hours. This compares with the £25,953 a Met police officer receives after 18 weeks' training, rising to £27,126 after two years' experience. Greater Manchester police intend to use 160 CSOs, each working with a uniformed officer and deployed in crime hotspots to provide a visible official presence. In Devon and Cornwall there will be two teams of 10 CSOs. This year £19m pounds has been set aside for the introduction of the CSOs. Mr Blunkett said they would help free up the record 129,603 police officers, to enable them to tackle other serious crime. The police minister, John Denham, denied that the new form of officer was policing on the cheap, arguing that they would not replace police officers but were an additional resource to reduce crime and the fear of crime.