 6.33pm GMT Afternoon summary• David Cameron has suggested that the government will soften its "secret courts' legislation in the face of criticism in the Lords. The justice and security bill started in the Lords and peers have inflicted several defeats on the government. Giving evidence to the Commons liaison committee, Cameron was asked whether the government would accept a Lords defeat saying the judge should always decide whether the new closed material proceedings (CMPs) are used. Cameron replied. In terms of discretion, it will always be a judge who decides whether [closed material proceedings] is appropriate.Sir Alan Beith, the chair of the liaison committee and chair of the Commons justice committee, said that that answer suggested that the government was accepting amendments proposed in the Lords. At that point Cameron said it was for Kenneth Clarke, the minister dealing with the bill, to announce the details.At one point Cameron said the new law was necessary because, under the current rules, the government was having to pay compensation to some "unsavoury people" because the security services could not use the evidence they needed to defend themselves in open court. Afterwards Clare Algar, the executive director of Reprieve, criticised this stance. The reality is that the government has settled cases because there has been clear evidence they were mixed up in serious human rights abuses ... If he really does have nothing to hide, why won't the Prime Minister list which cases it is that require such a dangerous departure from the proud British tradition of fair and equal justice?• Cameron has said that it would be a mistake to rule out gas as a long-term source of energy and that shale gas could be "transformative". This is what he told the committee.  It may be that this gas revolution is really quite transformative and there is going to be a lot more gas and the price won't be as expensive. That may be true, that may not be true. We just don't know. But I think it would be a big risk just to ignore what is happening in the gas market.We should have an open mind and we should take part in fracking and unconventional gas because this might be a revolution that we should be involved in. If we ignored it completely, you could be giving your economy much higher energy prices than is necessary. This is important because America's success in unconventional gas is giving them very low energy costs and actually cutting their carbon at the same time. They are actually seeing their country re-industrialise. If we tie ourselves to unnecessarily expensive policies we would be making a mistake.• Cameron has defended his decision to block David Kennedy as permanent secretary at the Department for Energy. Kennedy, chief executive of the Government's own independent advisory body on greenhouse gas emissions, was vetoed by Downing Street even though he had the support of Ed Davey, the energy secretary. Cameron said he did not want to talk about individuals. But he suggested that Kennedy did not have enough commercial experience. Having settled on the energy policy, the most important thing we need now in the Department of Energy and Climate Change is actually commercial experience, the ability to do deals. I want to see wave upon wave of investment coming into Britain to build our nuclear-power stations, to invest in the North Sea, to build green tech, green jobs, green investment. Now we've got a determined energy policy, let's get out there and sell it to the rest of the world. That's the priority.• Cameron has said that he will consider using a proposal from the home affairs committee to use trading standards officers to crack down on the sale of "legal highs". (See 4.20pm and 4.22pm.)• A Tory MP has claimed that Cameron's support for gay marriage is putting his chances of winning the 2015 election at risk. Brian Binley made the claim in an open letter to Cameron. Having been an office holder in the Conservative party for fifty-three years, I find it difficult to remember a time when the party’s leader in government failed consistently to chime with the natural instincts of our supporters. There is a wide – and growing—gap on a number of issues. The media frenzy of the last week-end over gay marriage arising from your premature observations has resulted in the creation of organisational factions within the party squabbling in public over the issue. Countless activists are feeling driven to give up their much-needed support for the party, and, as any legislation progresses, this injury can only get worst ....The very instincts and core of our party are based on recognising the knowledge of those who went before us, and Conservatives should progress on that foundation. It pains me that the present leadership seems intent on disagreeing with those basic tenets on an all-too-frequent basis, and we only have a short time to turn the situation around. I implore you to recognise that our current course is one which imperils our prospects for victory in 2015, and to take the steps that, as a leader, will put it right and create a platform for the majority Conservative government that this country so desperately needs.But Nick Clegg said that gay marriage would soon become normal. At the heart of all this is a very simple idea, which is that language matters, and that wherever you find love and commitment you should be able to call it the same thing when celebrating it - namely marriage. That will very quickly seem very normal to many, many people in this country in the years ahead.• Lord Hunt, the chairman of the Press Complaints Commission, has said he will shortly announce the members of a "transition board" as a first step to establishing a new press regulator.• The Conservative MP David Davis has backed Nick Clegg's call to send Theresa May's "snooper's charter" legislation back to the drawing board.• Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, has unveiled plans for new cancer screening programmes to help the UK reach the lowest cancer mortality rates in Europe. As the Press Association reports, pilot programmes to screen over-55s for bowel cancer will be launched in five areas in England. The scheme will enable doctors to detect and remove polyps before they turn cancerous and catch cancer earlier - when it is more treatable.• Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's deputy first minister, has accepted opposition demands for an emergency statement to the Holyrood parliament after José Manuel Barroso indicated that an independent Scotland would have no automatic right to inherit any of the UK's EU opt-outs. In evidence to a Lords committee, John Swinney, the Scottish finance minister, said he did not accept the claim from Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European Commission, that an independent Scotland would have to reapply for EU membership. Barroso's argument was "implausible", Swinney said.• Theresa Villers, the Northern Ireland secetary, has told MPs that the loyalists rioting in Belfast bring shame on the Union flat. No-one can be in any doubt about this Government's support for the union and its flag, but those people engaged in the kind of violence we have seen in the past few days are not defending the Union flag. There is nothing remotely British about what they are doing; they are dishonouring and shaming the flag of our country with their lawless and violent activities. They discredit the cause they claim to support.• The Labour MP John Mann has asked the parliamentary commissioner for standards to investigate Maria Miller's expenses claims. (See 2.48pm.)• Britain's aid spending watchdog has said that it is impossible to assess whether European Union aid money is being spent effectively.• Boris Johnson has appointed leading City economist Gerard Lyons as his chief economic adviser – to the consternation of critics who point out this brings to seven the number of advisers serving the London mayor on a six-figure salary.That's all for today.Thanks for the comments. 5.35pm GMT It's over. Anyone still awake?If so, I'll post a summary for you shortly. 5.34pm GMT Cameron says he has been particularly influence by Paul Collier, the "guru" who wrote The Bottom Billion. 5.30pm GMT Sir Malcolm Bruce, the Lib Dem chair of the international development committee, goes next.Cameron says he thinks trying to eliminate absolute poverty internationally is achievable over a generation.The world is trying to develop new goals to replace the millennium development goals, he says. Cameron is on a UN panel working on this.He thinks the new targets should be "simple and inspiring". Eliminating absolute poverty within a generation is an example, he says.Updated at 5.34pm GMT 5.26pm GMT Cameron says Britain used to have national housing targets. But that did not lead to more homes being built. Communities had no incentive to build homes, he says. 5.24pm GMT Clive Betts, the Labour chair of the communities committee, asks if Nick Boles, the planning minister, was expressing government policy when he said that 3% of land might need to be built on to provide homes.Cameron says there is no government target. But he watched some of Boles' performance on Newsnight. He thought he was "quite effectively" making the point that some building would have to take place on green field sites.Britain is not building enough houses, he says.He says he represents a rural area. In villages people might accept new homes if they think they will be consulted. But they are opposed to the idea of being housing estates being approved without their say.Betts says he thought Cameron was saying earlier that there was too much consultation.Cameron tells him he should have been a barrister.He wants decision making to be localised, he says. 5.19pm GMT Adrian Bailey, the Labour chair of the business committee, is asking the questions now.Q: Why won't you speed up allowing the green investment bank to borrow? The government has allowed borrowing for infrastructure projects.Cameron says the green investment bank has £3bn in its account. It does not need to borrow now.Treasury guarantees can be extended to green projects, he says.Q: But why shouldn't the green investment bank have the right to borrow on the private market?It will in time, he says. 5.07pm GMT They're now on badgers.Cameron says the last government just refused to take decisions about culling badgers.This government was prepared to take a difficult decision, he says.But it was postponed for logistical reasons.Some 26,000 cattle were destroyed last year, he says. "We looked at the science and we took the right decision." 5.04pm GMT The Daily Mail's Tim Shipman, chairman of the press gallery, thinks the liaison committee isn't doing a particularly good job.Tim Shipman (Mail) (@ShippersUnbound)Liaison Committee has extracted precisely zero points of interest after 60 mins. Press gallery got about 6 good lines in 25 mins yesterdayDecember 11, 2012 5.03pm GMT Cameron says privatisation led to the water industry being able to attract massive investment. That would not have happened if water had been queuing behind other priorities, like health. 4.59pm GMT Anne McIntosh, the Conservative chair of the environment committee, goes next.Q: What takes priority? Sustainability or growth?They go together, says Cameron.He recalls visiting eastern Europe. Environmental degradation went alongside economic failure.Updated at 5.05pm GMT 4.54pm GMT Cameron says the government has a "very progressive set of green policies".He says some in the green movement want the government to rule out gas. They want nuclear plus renewables plus energy efficiency.Cameron says that would be a mistake.The government has set out a subsidy regime for renewables, and a policy regime for nuclear. But it has an open mind on gas. If it rejected "unconventional gas", it could be shutting off a supply of cheap gas. America is using "unconventional gas" and it is becoming re-industrialised. 4.51pm GMT Joan Walley, the Labour chair of the environmental audit committee, goes next.Q: How is your vision being developed? Cameron says the government has been the first to produce a green paper on the natural environment. Carbon emissions are being cut. The government is on course to meet its carbon reduction targets and its renewable energy targets.He says the government has given renewable energy suppliers guarantees up to 2017.  4.47pm GMT Cameron says he wants renewable energy, nuclear energy and gas.But there's an unanswerable question about gas. No one knows how effective carbon capture and storage will be, he says.Q: Will you champion the economic advantages of leading Britain to a low-carbon future?Cameron says he does support further steps on energy efficiency.In most areas, politicians are accused of making too many speeches and not doing enough.In this area, the opposite is the case. The policy is fixed, he says. Now the government has to go out and sell it.Updated at 4.53pm GMT 4.42pm GMT Tim Yeo, the Conservative energy committee chairman, goes next.He says he supports Cameron on gay marriage. He would like to support him on green issues too, but he does not know who speaks for the government on these issues.Cameron says he is proud of his government's green record.But these are complicated issues. It takes time to get them right.As to why he blocked David Kennedy's appointment as permanent secretary at the Department of Energy, Cameron says it would be wrong to comment on individuals. But he thought it was very important to get people with commercial experience into the department. He wants it to start striking deals with energy companies. 4.38pm GMT Andrew Tyrie, the Conservative chairman of the Treasury committee, is asking the questions now. (Tyrie is also a campaigner against extraordinary rendition.)Tyrie says the extraordinary rendition compensation cases could be heard in court without the need for the new "secret courts" procedure being created by the government.He quotes Lord Macdonald, the former director of public prosecutions, criticising the government's plans. They could lead to something that produces less than justice, he says.Cameron says that, under the current system, the government is having to pay compensation because it cannot fight cases in court. Sometimes it is having to settle with some "unsavoury people".Public interest immunity (PII) certificates would not help, because they involve material being withheld from court, not disclosed to it, he says.Tyrie says the government has gone down "amendment by amendment" in the Lords.Q: Will you restore discretion to the judge as to whether to use the closed material procedure (secret hearings) route, and as to whether it can consider the PII route first?Cameron says the judge should have discretion.Beith says that sounds like a concession.Cameron says he cannot say any more. Kenneth Clarke has to make announcements on this.As for whether the PII route has to be exhausted, he thinks that would make things too cumbersome. 4.29pm GMT Hywel Francis, the Labour chairman of the joint committee on human rights, is asking the questions now.He says his committee was worried by Cameron's comment about wanting to get rid of equality impact assessments.Cameron says he is not saying that he wants equality to be ignored. He just wants to cut unnecessary bureaucracy.Equality should be considered at all stages of policy making.For example, when the government decided to freeze public sector pay, it realised that this would impact disproportionately on women. That is why the government decided to exempt the low paid.Updated at 4.36pm GMT 4.22pm GMT And here's what the home affairs committee report said about legal highs. The market in new psychoactive substances is changing quickly, too quickly for the current system of temporary banning orders to keep up. Forty-nine new substances were found in Europe last year, a rate of development which makes additional measures critical. At the moment, businesses are legally able to sell these products until such time as they are banned with apparently no legal consequences when they lead to death or long-term illness. We recommend that the Government issue guidance to Local Authority trading standards departments, citizens advice bureaux and other interested parties on the action which might be taken under existing trading standards and consumer protection legislation to tackle the sale of these untested substances. A restaurant which gave its diners food poisoning, a garage which left cars in a dangerous state, or a shop which sold dangerously defective goods could all be prosecuted for their negligence. Retailers who sell untested psychoactive substances must be liable for any harm the products they have sold cause. It is unacceptable that retailers should be able to use false descriptions and disclaimers such as "plant food" and "not for human consumption" as a defence where it is clear to all concerned that the substance is being sold for its psychoactive properties and the law should be amended.Cameron said he had asked his officials to consider this carefully. (See 4.20pm.) 4.20pm GMT Vaz is still asking the questions.Q: Do we need to be tougher on those who launder drug money?Cameron says he has not read the home affairs committee report on drugs yet.But he was interested in what it said about legal highs. He has asked his team at Number 10 to look at that.There should be tough penalties for money laundering, he says.Q: Should the family of Jacintha Saldanha, the nurse who was found dead after accepted a hoax call about the Duchess of Cambridge, be given the full facts of what happened?Yes, of course, says Cameron. It's a terrible case. There are lessons to learn.Having the full facts does not bring anyone back. But it helps people come to terms with what has happened. 4.16pm GMT Keith Vaz, the chair of the home affairs committee, is asking the questions now.Q: Are you worried the police are demonstrating against the government?Cameron says he wants to put on record his support for the police.They are facing a number of challenges. But they are meeting these challenges "very effectively".Crime is falling, he says.Q: Does it concern you that 26 of the 43 police forces either do not have a chief constable, or have a chief constable about to retire?Cameron says he has had these figures checked. They were in the Sunday Times. He does not think they are right.There are some extremely capable chief constables, he says.His own chief constable in Thames Valley, Sara Thornton, has managed to deal with spending cuts without much impact on the frontline.Q: And what about the turnout in the police and crime commissioner elections?Turnout was "disappointing", Cameron says.When the next elections come, turnout will be higher. 4.11pm GMT Q: You have criticised judicial review. Won't your plans to change this affect "the little man being pushed around by the executive"?Cameron says judicial review has become "a mechanism to slow down the things you don't agree with". 4.09pm GMT Cameron says every community penalty should have an element of punishment.We need to be more intelligent about how we punish people, he says.He also says he is in favour of tracking tags.Q: Will there be a white paper or a green paper on rehabilitation?Cameron says he will have to write to Beith about this. 4.04pm GMT   David Cameron at the liaison committee Photograph: BBC NewsSir Alan Beith, the committee chairman, is asking questions.Q: Are you changing the criminal justice system because you need to restore public confidence in it? Or do you want to make it tougher?Both, says Cameron. The two go together. He says retribution is a part of sentencing. 4.01pm GMT Cameron is giving evidence now.He says the government has changed the criminal justice system in some areas, for example knife crime. 3.50pm GMT David Cameron's evidence to the liaison committeeDavid Cameron will be giving evidence to the liaison committee at 4pm. The hearing will last for 90 minutes and it will cover two topics.• Future direction of policing and the criminal justice system• Green governmentI will be covering it in detail. 3.46pm GMT Here's a short, and rather eclectic, reading list.• Hopi Sen on his blog says that public attitudes to welfare may be changing, but not quickly enough to help Labour. There is a political danger here for the left. If the tide is turning “our way”, but not running very far, very fast or particularly strongly, the risk is that we see the voters turn away from the harshest judgements of the government on society, but we mistake the depth and impact of that swing, and so spend rather a long time waiting for the pendulum to move far enough towards us that we can grab onto it.Perhaps the best way to express this is that roughly twice as many people feel benefits are too high today than did in 1983, 1987 or 1991.Similarly, In 1987 and 1991 twice as many people felt more should spend more on welfare benefits than do today. These high levels of support did not herald a new progressive dawnThe pendulum probably is going to swing, but it has a loooong way to swing.• Ed Miliband tells Grazia that his wife admires Nick Clegg's wife for not getting involved in politics.• The Huffington Post reveals that Arthur Scargill has now become a fashion icon. 3.36pm GMT   King Abdullah II of Jordan shakes hands with David Cameron inside 10 Downing Street. Photograph: PETER MACDIARMID/AFP/Getty ImagesDavid Cameron met the King of Jordan in Downing Street today. Afterwards Cameron's office issued this (exceedingly bland) read out of what was discussed. The prime minister met His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan in Downing Street this afternoon. They discussed Jordan's upcoming parliamentary elections and the importance of encouraging public participation in this important next step of political reform in Jordan. The leaders also discussed a range of Middle East regional issues. They shared analysis of the situation in Syria, and agreed on the need for international action to end the conflict through a political transition, to respond to the deteriorating humanitarian situation and to support the National Coalition as they continue to establish themselves as a credible, democratic and inclusive alternative to the Assad regime.On the Israeli/Palestinian conflict, the leaders agreed on the urgency of restarting direct negotiations for a lasting and just two state settlement. On Egypt, they stressed the importance of an inclusive process to agree a new constitution. The home secretary joined the first part of the meeting and briefed the leaders on the Abu Qatada case. The King and the prime minister emphasised the commitment in both countries to continue to work closely together to find a solution that would allow his return to Jordan. 2.54pm GMT Maria Miller's announcement that she is going to change the law to ban the Church of England from conducting gay marriages is already generating an angry protest.Here's Chris Byrant, the Labour MP and former vicar.Chris Bryant (@ChrisBryantMP)Maria Miller has managed to turn a positive announcement affirming same sex relationships into a negative one. One step forward two back.December 11, 2012Here's Yvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary.Yvette Cooper (@YvetteCooperMP)Why does Gov want to make it illegal for CofE to hold same sex marriages even if it wants to in future? How is that freedom of religion?December 11, 2012And here's Ben Bradshaw, the Labour former culture secretary.Ben Bradshaw (@BenPBradshaw).@yvettecoopermp:"Why does Gov want to make it illegal for @c_of_e to hold same sex marriages even if it wants to?"Case for Lab amendment?December 11, 2012 2.48pm GMT Maria Miller has been interviewed on Sky, and she was asked about the Daily Telegraph story about her expenses. This is what she had to say. My expenses are absolutely in order. They have been audited twice. This is not something that I think should get in the way of what is such an important announcement today.Updated at 3.41pm GMT 2.42pm GMT For the record, here is the note from the Maria Miller press release explaining how her "quadruple lock" to ensure that religious groups do not have to conduct gay marriage against their will will actually work. no religious organisation, or individual minister, could be compelled to marry same-sex couples (or to permit this to happen on their premises);it will be unlawful for religious organisations, or their ministers, to marry same-sex couples unless the organisation’s governing body has expressly opted in to do so (and that would mean the religious organisation itself opting in, the presiding minister having consented and the premises in which the marriage is to be conducted having been registered);the Equality Act 2010 would be amended to ensure that no discrimination claim could be brought against religious organisations or individual minister for refusing to marry a same-sex couple (or allowing their premises to be used for this purpose); andthe bill will explicitly state that it would be illegal for the Church of England and the Church in Wales to marry same-sex couples, or to opt-in to do so. Canon law – which bans the marriage of same-sex couples – will continue to apply. That means that it would require a change in both primary and Canon law before Church of England and Church in Wales would be able to opt in to conduct same - sex marriages.And here's Patrick Wintour's story with full details of the announcement.Updated at 2.47pm GMT 2.31pm GMT Listening to a Commons statement isn't always a constructive use of one's time, but sometimes it really does illuminate the political scene. After spending 90 minutes reporting on Maria Miller and gay marriage, two points stand out.• David Cameron has launched a full-scale, US-style culture war - and it has pitted him against the traditionalists who provide the Conservative party with its bedrock support. If, like me, you're an urban, Guardian-reading, small-l liberal, you may find it hard to imagine why anyone should object at all to gay marriage. But, even if this is mystifying to metropolitan society, there are clearly some people who find the idea profoundly unsettling. They may not be representative of society at large, but a large number of them are probably active members or supporters of the Conservative party and this afternoon their parliamentary representatives stood up and let rip. At times it was almost as dotty as hearing the House of Lords debate the age of consent, but their objections are clearly very genuine and cannot just be dismissed as marginal. A colleague recalls hearing a government aide say when the policy was originally announced that there would not be much of a fuss over gay marriage, and Cameron probably never imagined he would be provoking a backlash quite this strong. After today, he will have no illusions. The Conservative party seems to be at war.• Maria Miller's emollient, non-judgmental approach worked quite well. At the beginning of the statement, Yvette Cooper invited Miller to confront what we used to call the "Tory Taliban". Miller rejected this approach and instead she made a point of being as unprovocative as possible, endlessly telling her critics that she understood their concerns. It was bland and dull, but in political terms it was probably very sensible. It was an inflammatory situation, but she contained it well.Updated at 2.45pm GMT 1.58pm GMT The session is over. John Bercow says 62 backbenchers have contributed. I haven't been keeping a score, but it feels as if most of them were Tory MPs spluttering with outrage.I will post a summary soon. 1.55pm GMT Richard Drax, a Conservative, says his constituents in South Dorset do not support gay marriage. He accuses the government of "arrogance" and asks by what right it is "stamping its legislative foot". 1.52pm GMT Penny Mordaunt, a Conservative, says that as an unmarried heterosexual woman, she will certainly consider the institution if the bill goes through. 1.49pm GMT Mark Pawsey, a Conservative, says marriage rates collapsed in Spain after gay marriage was introduced there.Updated at 2.41pm GMT 1.46pm GMT Richard Graham, a Conservative, asks if Roman Catholic churches will be given the same legal opt-out that the Church of England is getting.Miller says there will be opt-outs for the Roman Catholic church and for the evangelical church. 1.43pm GMT John Leech, a Lib Dem MP, says this has been a "divisive" consultation process. 1.43pm GMT Craig Whittaker, a Conservative, says Miller says there is a "negligible" risk of a successful legal challenge. What is that in percentage terms?Miller says that case law has put this matter "beyond doubt". 1.39pm GMT Marcus Jones, a Conservative, asks for an assurance that teachers who disagree with this will not fall foul of employment law.Miller says she understands these concerns. But the courts have been clear; individuals are entitled to their private views, she says. 1.38pm GMT Andrew Selous, a Conservative, says the government is passing law directly contrary to what Jesus said about marriage.Miller says there have been other moments when marriage has evolved. Parliament has been a radical campaigner on this, she says. 1.37pm GMT Robin Walker, a Conservative, says that "in principle" he supports the idea of extending marriage. But he is concerned about the impact on churches. Will they be protected from any extra costs they incur?Miller says the government is giving churches "concrete assurances". 1.34pm GMT John Glen, a Conservative, asks why the government is pressing ahead with this when his constituents do not want it.Miller asks Glen to consider that people who support the government's view may not have been in touch with him. 1.33pm GMT Miller says gay couples will be able to get divorced on the grounds of unreasonable behaviour if adultery does not apply. 1.32pm GMT Matthew Offord, a Conservative, asks Miller if she is aware of the campaign to legalise polygamy that has started since gay marriage was allowed there.Miller says that marriage is between two people. 1.31pm GMT Julian Brazier, a Conservative, asks what safeguards will be put in place to protect teachers who teach that marriage is between a man and a woman.Miller says that she would expect teaching to be done "in a balanced manner".Updated at 1.34pm GMT 1.30pm GMT Laurence Robertson, a Conservative, says many people are "deeply offended" by these proposals. 1.28pm GMT Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem deputy leader, says he supports gay marriage. But it wasn't in any election manifesto, and it was not in the coalition agreement. He urges Miller to proceed carefully, and to make it clear that civil marriage is different from religious marriage. 1.26pm GMT Stephen Williams, a Lib Dem MP, says this is a major strike for equality. 1.26pm GMT Bernard Jenkin, a Conservative, praises Miller for the "sensitive" way she is making the statement. This is not about changing society; it is about recognising the way in which society has already changed, he says. 1.25pm GMT Jim Shannon, a DUP MP, says 99.9% of the people in his constituency are opposed to gay marriage.Miller says the consultation was not about whether the government would proceed with this measure, but about how it would implement it. 1.23pm GMT Labour's Jonathan Reynolds asks if gay couples will have the option of a civil partnership or a marriage.Miller says they will be able to choose either option, partly to protect those people already in civil partnerships. 1.22pm GMT Gerald Howarth, a Conservative, says 62% of people think marriage is between a man and a woman. The government has no right to impose this "massive social and cultural change", he says. The consultation was "a complete sham". 1.20pm GMT Labour's Diana Johnson asks if Miller is happy about the established church once again opting out of equalities legislation.Miller says it is important to give the church the certainty it wants. 1.19pm GMT Sir Tony Baldry, a Conservative and a church commissioner, says marriage does embody the distinctiveness of men and women.Miller says Baldry has put his case clearly. That's why there is a very clear protection for the Church of England. 1.17pm GMT Peter Bone, a Conservative, says he was up late last night reading all three party manifestos at the 2010 election. Not one of them mentioned gay marriage, he says. How dare Miller bring in this measure?Miller says she respects Bone's views.The contract for equalities, that sat alongside the Conservative manifesto, said the party would consider the case for gay marriage, she says. 1.14pm GMT Back in the chamber, Anne McIntosh says that in Denmark the churches have tried to get the exemption that is promised in the consultation document. But that has been ruled illegal, she says.Miller says European case law makes it clear that this is a matter for nation states. 1.13pm GMT And it's not just the language in the consultation document that is quite vivid. (See 1.10pm.) The Daily Mail's James Chapman has tweeted this.James Chapman (Mail) (@jameschappers)Gay marriage brief by Anglican Mainstream to all MPs today warns: 'The rectal lining is unable to withstand penetrative activity'. Ye godsDecember 11, 2012 1.11pm GMT Stewart Jackson, a Conservative, says the consultation is reminiscent of a Liberian election. The plans are "a constitutional outrage and a disgrace," he says. The government has "no electoral mandate" for this. 1.10pm GMT My colleague Patrick Wintour has been tweeting about the announcement. Maria Miller expects same sex marriage law in place by early 2014 with 60 % of Tory MPs at present backing her plans. Bill in January.Any same sex marriage conducted by CoE vicar, if CoE collectively opposed to such marriages, will not be recognised in law.Grounds for divorce in a same sex marriage will include adultery, but non-consummation will not be grounds for annulling a same sex marriage.There are footnotes in consultation paper on same sex marriage about "lesser acts of sexual gratification" that are quite vivid for HMG.Updated at 1.21pm GMT 1.07pm GMT Edward Leigh, a Conservative, suggests that the government cannot be trusted on gay marriage and churches. Originally MPs were told that civil partnerships would not lead to gay marriage. And then, when the government launched a consultation, it excluded allowing gay marriage in church. 1.06pm GMT Here is the news release about the government's gay marriage plans.And here's the full text of the government's response to the consultation on gay rights (pdf). 1.04pm GMT Labour's Chris Byrant says the government should not impose a lock on the Church of England because it may change its mind over gay marriage.Miller says that, if the church changes its mind, it can always ask the government to change the law. 1.02pm GMT Miller says the government is not allowing heterosexual people to have a civil partnership because there is no significant demand for this. 1.02pm GMT Roger Gale, a Conservative, says that he chaired the civil partnership bill committee when it was going through the Commons. At the time MPs were told that civil partnerships were not "the thin end of the wedge" and that they would not lead to gay marriage. 1.00pm GMT When Nick Herbert asked his question, he said that this announcement would be widely welcomed by the public. Someone shouted loudly that this was wrong.The Tory MP Margot James has tweeted this.margot james (@margotjamesmp)Appalling that Nick Herbert is shouted down by members of our own sideDecember 11, 2012Another tweet from James suggests the heckler was wrong.margot james (@margotjamesmp)Ipsos MORI poll confirms 75% in favour of equal civil marriage as long as religious freedoms are protected @equalmarriageDecember 11, 2012 12.57pm GMT   Maria Miller. Photograph: BBC ParliamentNick Herbert, the Conservative former Home Office minister, who is in a civil partnership, says today's announcement should reassure church groups.Miller says the "quadruple lock" should give clear reassurance to religious groups. 12.55pm GMT Miller responds to Cooper.She appears not to like the tone of Cooper's anti-Tory comments. It is important to avoid "polarising" language on this, she says. 12.54pm GMT   Yvette Cooper Photograph: BBC ParliamentYvette Cooper, the shadow home secretary and shadow equalities secretary, is responding for Labour.She starts by suggesting that Miller could have made this announcement yesterday.Labour introduced various measures to extend gay rights, she says. And it supports these plans.She urges Tory MPs who have opposed gay marriage not to use the hysterical language used yesterday.She urges Miller to promote these measures with confidence.Updated at 1.10pm GMT 12.48pm GMT Miller says disputes about wearing religious symbols have no bearing on marriage.Article 9 of the European convention on human rights says marriage is a matter for each individual state, she says.Marriage will remain a "vibrant institution" under these plans, she says. 12.47pm GMT Miller says the chance of a successful legal challenge is "negligible".The quadruple lock system will "iron clad" protection in law, she says.First, there will be a declaration on the face of the bill saying no religious organisation or minister can be forced to marry a gay couple, or to permit a gay wedding on their premises.Second, the equalities legislation will be amended to make this clear.Third, the bill will say that gay couples cannot be married in a church unless that religious organisation has opted in to the system. That means, if a church opts out, an individual minister would not be able to conduct a gay wedding.Fourth, the bill will explicitly ban the Church of England and the Church in Wales from conducting gay marriage.Updated at 1.09pm GMT 12.44pm GMT Maria Miller is staring her statement now.Not so long ago marriage was dismissed as "out of date". But most people aspire to marry, she says.This consultation has been the subject of much debate.The government has also received 19 petitions on this. And some 228,000 people responded to the consultation.Marriage has had a long history of evolving.In the 19th century, groups like the Quakers were not allowed to marry unless they married in a Church of England church.In each century parliament has legislated to keep marriage "relevant and meaningful".Now there is another chance to extend marriage.Extending marriage to gay couples will strengthen the institution.• Miller confirms that religious organisations will be allowed to conduct same-sex marriages.But religious groups that do not want to marry same-sex couples will not be forced to do so, she says.She wants to be fair to gay couples, and fair to people of faith.The government is 100% clear: any church or synagogue or mosque that does not want to conduct a gay marriage will not have to, she says.• Miller says there will be a "quadruple lock" ensuring religious groups do not have to conduct gay marriage if they do not want to.Updated at 1.07pm GMT 12.32pm GMT Maria Miller's statement on gay marriageMaria Miller, the culture secretary and equalities minister, is about to publish her proposals for gay marriage.This is what happened when she answered an urgent question on it yesterday.  12.29pm GMT Lunchtime summary• George Osborne has announced that a mistake made relating to the nationalisation of Northern Rock will cost the taxpayer £270m.• The Office for National Statistics has released census data showing that over the decade the proportion of people saying that they are Christian has gone down 13 percentage points to 59%, the proportion saying they are not religious has gone up 10 percentage points to 25% and the proportion who are white has gone down five percentage points to 86%. There are more details of all the figures on our live blog.• Ed Balls has confirmed that Labour will oppose the coalition's plan to cap benefit increases at 1% for three years. He made the announcement during Treasury questions.• Osborne, the chancellor, has said that the next budget will be on Wednesday 20 March.• Downing Street has said that it will amend the draft bill extending internet surveillance in the light of criticism from a cross-party scrutiny committee. Earlier, in an interview, James Brokenshire, a Conservative Home Office minister, sought to play down the rift between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats on this issue.• Robert Chote, the chairman of the Office for Budget Responsibility, has told MPs on the Treasury committee that if Britain were to lose its AAA credit rating, that would probably not have any "noticeable impact" on the cost of borrowing. It's not entirely clear that that would be providing any new information to the markets that they had not already managed to deduce from the information on which presumably the credit ratings agencies would have drawn their conclusion.I think we've seen other countries suffer that and it's not had an obviously noticeable impact on market views.As the Press Association reports, Chote also questioned the "slightly debatable premise" about measuring the default risk for a country that can print its own money.• The Ministry of Justice has announced plans to cut the number of fraudulent whiplash claims.• The Lords constitution committee has published a report saying that the government's defamation bill may not provide newspapers with a "sufficiently robust and succinct defence" against defamation claims on the basis that publication was in the public interest.• Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, has said she will make a statement in the Commons about the rioting in Belfast.• Ministers are planning to make some childcare costs tax deductible, the BBC has reported.Updated at 1.06pm GMT 12.16pm GMT Next year's budget will be on Wednesday 20 March, George Osborne told MPs in Treasury questions a moment ago. 11.49am GMT I'm doing an interview with Dave Prentis, the Unison general secretary, later this week. If you would like to suggest a question, do post it please at the bottom of this blog rather than at the bottom of the one you're reading now. 11.47am GMT There's a story in the Daily Telegraph today saying Maria Miller claimed parliamentary expenses for a home that her parents were staying in. (They were living with her family, Miller says.)This seems to have diminished her enthusiasm for giving interviews about gay marriage.ITV News (@itvnews)Cabinet minister Maria Miller postpones TV interviews amid second-home report itv.co/UJRVNXDecember 11, 2012 11.38am GMT You can read all today's Guardian politics stories here. And all the politics stories filed yesterday, including some in today's paper, are here.As for the rest of the papers, here's the PoliticsHome list of top 10 must reads, here's the ConservativeHome roundup of today's political stories and here's the New Statesman list of top 10 comment articles.And here are four articles I found particularly interesting.• Vanessa Houlder in the Financial Times (subscription) says George Osborne’s “shares for rights” scheme would end up costing the Treasury £1bn. George Osborne’s “shares for workers’ rights” initiative could end up costing Britain £1bn a year in lost revenues, the Office for Budget Responsibility has warned, at the same time as the government battles to clamp down on tax avoidance schemes.The long-term potential cost of the chancellor’s policy, buried in an annex to the Autumn Statement’s costing documents, is likely to fuel controversy over the employment initiative that got the go-ahead last week in spite of a poor welcome from business.Paul Johnson, director of the Institute for Fiscal Studies, the independent think-tank, attacks the government in Tuesday’s Financial Times for condemning tax avoidance as it “prepares to put another billion pound lollipop on the table”.He writes: “Just as government ministers are falling over themselves to condemn such [avoidance] behaviour, that same government is trumpeting a new tax policy which looks like it will foster a whole new avoidance industry.”• Rachel Sylvester in the Times (paywall) says the two coalition parties have given up pretending that they are bound together by common views. In the Lords, relations within the coalition have almost completely broken down. Lord Strathclyde, the Leader of the House of Lords, tried hosting joint drinks parties for Lib Dem and Tory peers. They have been quietly turned into separate Lib Dem and Tory events because, according to one peer, “the two groups couldn’t bear to be in the same room”.There is a growing sense of disillusionment on both sides. “We wake up every morning thinking — how can we make the country a better place? They wake up thinking: how can we screw the Tories?” says one Conservative Cabinet minister. “It’s like when the in-laws come round at Christmas and you get out the Monopoly set but you’re playing to different rules. We have a completely different attitude to power.”A senior Lib Dem sees it rather differently. “Nick is detaching himself from David Cameron and rightly so. We need to be equidistant between Labour and the Conservatives by the next election.”• Janan Ganesh in the Financial Times (subscription) says politicians need to show business more respect. Starbucks’ decision to capitulate by volunteering £20m of tax is not merely absurd but dangerous. Imagine an economy in which businesses decide their tax bill by gauging the popular pressure on them. Revenues would be impossible for the Treasury to predict. Companies with a public face, such as a chain of coffee shops, would be harassed into munificence while those doing obscure business-to-business trade go ignored. The basic fiduciary duty that companies owe to their shareholders’ economic interests would be lost ...A large part of the UK’s appeal as a place to do business is its reputation for predictable and responsible government backed by one of the world’s great legal systems. It matters, therefore, if politicians behave arbitrarily. It matters if the head of the Financial Services Authority announces that much of the business he regulates is “socially useless”, as if such a notion were measurable or at all relevant. It matters if mobs are indulged rather than defied. British politicians chuckled last month when they read about a French minister threatening to sequester a foreign-owned industrial plant to avoid job losses there. But such reckless political caprice is seeping in to the UK.Not all politicians are equally guilty. Ed Balls, the shadow chancellor so often caricatured as a leftwinger, is a rigorous thinker who restrains his Labour colleagues’ urge to treat business as a branch of social work. George Osborne, the chancellor, was never much taken with Mr Cameron’s chocolate orange phase. But these grown-ups need to stand more assertively against the mob, and against irresponsible members of their own trade. It is not as if the UK’s elites have done so well at running the country that they can try their hand at moral and aesthetic questions too.• Steve Richards in the Independent says that David Cameron seems to be pursuing gay marriage for electoral reasons. I am sure Blair almost believed in locking up suspects without charge for 90 days but his view was sharpened by the knowledge the policy was popular. In the case of Cameron, Osborne and gay marriage we have evidence of simplistic political calculation. In the recent article for the Times in which the Chancellor generously outlined his strategy for the next election, the strategic importance of gay marriage was extensively highlighted. As he reflected on President Obama’s recent election victory, Osborne noted that: “President Obama’s high-profile endorsement of equal marriage for gay couples also enthused younger voters…. polls found that a majority of all Americans supported him on the issue.”The Chancellor then moved on to the situation in the UK: “It is worth reflecting that in Britain, as in America, a clear majority of the public support gay marriage, and an even bigger majority of women support it. That majority support is just as high in the North as it is the South, and it is equally high among all socio-economic groups”.Evidently Osborne hopes that support for the policy will soften the perception of the Conservative leadership – among women voters in particular. And he must hope that his stance will attract the approval of other voters from all regions and classes. As they embark on a whole range of ill thought through and in some cases outdated reforms, the Tory leadership has with this policy a shield marked “modern” – taking on some crusty old party members, archbishops and the Telegraph. In theory at least the dynamic works well for them.Updated at 12.58pm GMT 10.40am GMT As I mentioned earlier, the census has got Christians down 13 percentage points. (See 9.53am.) As slumps go, Christianity is doing almost as badly as the Lib Dems.And now we're on the subject, here are the latest polling figures.Here are today's YouGov GB figures.Labour: 42% (no change since YouGov in the Sunday Times)Conservatives: 33% (no change)Lib Dems: 10% (no change)Ukip: 8% (down 1)Labour lead: 9 points (no change)Government approval: -32 (down 1)And here are the figures from TNS BMRB that come out yesterday afternoon.Labour: 41%Conservatives: 26%Ukip: 16%Lib Dems: 8%Labour lead: 15 pointsUpdated at 10.48am GMT 10.25am GMT There's a live blog bonanza at the Guardian today.You've got me, focusing on gay marriage and (later) David Cameron at the liaison committee, but also wrapping up everything, as usual.You've got a live blog about the census figures, and the decline of religion.And now we've got a live blog covering the culture committee Leveson hearing, which will involve evidence from Lord Hunt, the Press Complaints Commisison chairman, and some chap called Alan Rusbridger. 10.19am GMT   Elizabeth Truss, the education minister. Photograph: Chris Radburn/PA Archive/Press Association ImaBy international standards, English pupils are getting better at reading, doing worse at science and making no progress in maths, according to the Department for Education.This morning it has published the results of two international studies, the Progress in International Reading Literacy Study (PIRLS) and the Trends in International Maths and Science Study (TIMSS). Pupils were tested in 2011. According to the department, the results show that English pupils have: fallen in science at age 10 – down to 15th out of 50 jurisdictions from seventh out of 36 in 2007;risen in reading at age 10 – up to 11th out of 45 jurisdictions from 15th out of 40 in 2006;plateaued in maths at ages 10 and 14 between 2007 and 2011, and in science at age 14.Elizabeth Truss, the education minister, claims that the results highlight the need for exam reform. These tests were taken in summer 2011 and reflect changes in the period 2006 and 2007 to 2011. The rise in performance in reading is encouraging but there is too long a tail of under-performance. The lack of progress in maths and the decline in science, linked to the removal of compulsory tests for all 11-year-olds, is a real concern. That is why we are driving forward the Academy programme and giving schools the freedom to make their own choices. That is why we are bringing in new rigorous exams that will be on a par with the best in the world and reforming the curriculum to focus on core arithmetic, algebra and geometry like high-performing jurisdictions.This is what they do in the world’s most successful education states - and we are following suit. 10.07am GMT David Cameron is meeting the King of Jordan today. The Press Association has filed a preview story. David Cameron will discuss the Government's long-running battle to have terror suspect Abu Qatada deported from Britain today when he meets the King of Jordan in Downing Street. King Abdullah's visit to Number 10 will provide an opportunity for them to address Qatada's latest success in evading his removal to stand trial in Jordan. The Special Immigration Appeals Commission (Siac) last month upheld his appeal against deportation as it ruled that despite assurances from the Arab kingdom, it could not be sure evidence from witnesses who had been tortured would not be included in a retrial in his homeland. The government is appealing against the decision but Qatada - convicted of terror charges in Jordan in his absence in 1999 - remains in the UK on bail conditions including a 16-hour curfew, wearing an electronic tag, not using the internet, and not contacting certain people. It was reported today that he has moved house to what is believed to be a larger home in the greater London area. The prime minister said last month he was "fed up" that Qatada remained in Britain, following his release from Long Lartin jail. The Jordanian government, which has worked with UK ministers to try to facilitate his return, also expressed their disappointment with the decision. 10.04am GMT   James Brokenshire, Home Office minister. Photograph: Michael Dunlea/Rex FeaturesJames Brokenshire, the Home Office minister, was on the Today programme this morning responding to the scrutiny committee's report about the draft bill to extend internet surveillance. Brokenshire is a Conservative, and he did his best to play down the significance of the Conservative/Lib Dem rift, insisting that the Home Office was willing to accept the committee's concerns. We are saying that we accept the substance of the recommendations from the joint committee's report. That will require work to amend the legislation ... We've already been working on this. It's not like we're at a standing start here. We've been working through this as the joint committee has been examining the evidence. We've been noting the points that has been said and therefore there is already work that is advanced in relation to making some of the changes on, for example, this balance on how much you actually state on the information that is required to be retained ...We believe that the changes that meet the substance of these recommendation can be met in a reasonable short order ... What we want to do is work through on these points, recognising that the deputy prime minister has set out his concerns and making sure that the substance of the recommendations from the joint committee are addressed. I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome. 9.53am GMT My colleagues Paul Owen and Simon Rogers are covering today's census data on a live blog.Here are some of the key points they've identified. • The population of England and Wales on 27 March 2011 was 56.1 million. This is a 7% increase (3.7 million) from 2.1, and 55% of that is due to immigration.• One in six people were 65 or over (16%: 9.2 million).• 81% (45.5 million) described themselves as being in good or very good health.• The number identifying themselves as Christians is down 13 percentage points. In 2001, 72% (37.3 million) called themselves Christians. In 2011 that had dropped to 59% (33.2 million).• The number identifying themselves as having no religion has increased by 10 percentage points from 15% (7.7 million) in 2001 to 25% (14.1 million) last year.• 13% of residents were born outside the UK (7.5 million). Just over half of these (3.8 million) arrived in the last 10 years.• The number of cars and vans used by English and Welsh households increased from 23.9 million to 27.3 million from 2001 to 2011. There are now 12 cars per 10 households; in 2001 there were 11. London is the only region where the number of cars and vans is lower than the number of households.• In 2011 there were more people with degree-level qualifications or above, at 27% (12.4 million), than people with no qualifications (23%: 10.3 million). 9.50am GMT The Labour party will allow its MPs a free vote on the principle of allowing gay marriage in religious buildings. George Eaton has more details on a New Statesman blog. 9.44am GMT   Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary. Photograph: David Sillitoe for the GuardianTheresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, will make a statement in the Commons later on the rioting in Belfast. This is what she told BBC News earlier. I've been in almost daily touch with the police service in Northern Ireland and they assure me they are dedicated to bringing these disgraceful scenes to a close and they assure me they are investigating the threats that have been made to elected representatives because that is a particularly disgraceful aspect of what has gone on.The idea that these people are trying to intimidate Assembly members, Councillors, even Naomi Long has received a death threat. It is utterly unacceptable and it is an affront to democracy that these threats are under way.The crucial thing is for these violent protests to stop. I think all the debates on the flying of flags needs to be taken with calm reflection, free from intimidation. That is the approach we need to build a genuinely cohesive and peaceful Northern Ireland, whether it is taking decisions on flags or other issues.I've taken the quotes from PoliticsHome.Updated at 12.47pm GMT 9.01am GMT It’s groundhog day for Maria Miller. She was in the House of Commons yesterday afternoon answering an urgent question about gay marriage and this afternoon she’s back, making the formal announcement about the government’s plans. As Patrick Wintour reports in the Guardian today, some Conservative MPs are incandescent. The vehemence of Conservative divisions over same-sex marriage were exposed when one Tory MP said it would undermine “normal marriage”, another questioned whether polygamy would be legalised next, and a third claimed that European judges will soon force the Church of England to allow same-sex marriages against its will.A fourth Tory MP David Davies, the MP for Monmouth and chair of the Welsh Affairs Select Committee insisted he was not a bigot because as a boxer he had once trained with a gay boxer. He tweeted: “Once fought gay boxer. Respect & like. trained with after bout so not bigoted. activists calm down – listen to other views.”We know what the government wants to do, but today we might get some clarification over the details. I will be covering the statement in full.Generally, it’s a busy day. Here’s the full diary.9am: Elizabeth Truss, the education minister, gives a speech on international test results.9.30am: Robert Chote, the chairman of the Office for Budget Responsibility, gives evidence to the Commons Treasury committee on the autumn statement.9.30am: Lord Heseltine, the former deputy prime minister, gives evidence to the Commons business committee about his recent growth report.9.30am: Professor David Haslam, the chairman-designate of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence, gives evidence in a pre-appointment hearing with the Commons health committee.9.30am: The Office for National Statistics releases fresh data from the 2011 census.10.20am: Andy Burnham, the shadow health secretary, speaks at the Britain against Cancer conference. Jeremy Hunt, the health secretary, speaks at the same conference at 3.45pm.10.30am: Lord Hunt, the chairman of the Press Complaints Commission, gives evidence to the Commons culture committee about the Leveson report. Alan Rusbridger, the Guardian editor, gives evidence at 11.15am.10.30am: Steve Webb, the welfare minister, gives a speech on child maintenance reforms.10.30am: Big Brother Watch holds a press conference on the government’s plans to extend internet surveillance. As Alan Travis reports, the publication of a report on the plans from a parliamentary scrutiny committee has triggered a deep split between Theresa May, the home secretary who is backing the plans, and Nick Clegg, who wants “to go back to the drawing board”.11.30am: George Osborne, the chancellor, takes questions in the Commons.12.30pm: Maria Miller, the culture secretary, is announcing the governent’s plans for gay marriage in a statement to the Commons.Around 1.30pm: Theresa Villiers, the Northern Ireland secretary, makes a statement about the rioting in Belfast.Around 2.30pm: MPs begin a debate on the economy.3.30pm: John Swinney, the Scottish finance minister, gives evidence to a Lords committee about the economic impact of Scottish independence.4pm: David Cameron gives evidence to the Commons liaison committee about policing and the criminal justice system, and about green government.As usual, I'll also be covering all the breaking political news as well as looking at the papers and bringing you the best politics from the web. I'll post a lunchtime summary before Miller's statement, and another after Cameron has finished his evidence to the liaison committee.If you want to follow me on Twitter, I'm at @AndrewSparrow.