The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday December 28 2003In the article below we described the convicted murderer Ian Huntley as 'the caretaker at Soham Community College, the school Holly and Jessica attended'. His victims, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, were not pupils at the college; they attended St Andrew's Primary School, Soham. Apologies.Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson was at home watching the local BBC news on television early on Monday, 5 August. He was in the habit of turning on the TV at breakfast time. Just to check that nothing significant had happened overnight. With 30 years' experience in the force, he was only two years away from retirement. A couple more cases, probably serious but nothing earth-shattering, would see him to his pension with an unblemished police record. At 6.30am the Look East television bulletin ran a 20-second report. 'Two 10-year-old girls have gone missing from their homes in Cambridgeshire,' it said. 'Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were last seen at 6.30 yesterday evening around Soham. Both girls are 4ft 6in tall and were wearing Manchester United shirts. 'Anyone who may have seen them is asked to contact Ely police.' The story was too minor for national breakfast television. But Stevenson knew that something could be about to break. Girls of that age do not simply go missing. What had happened? 'It just hit me,' he told The Observer. 'This could be big. There was just something not right.' And so began a nightmare. Holly and Jessica were two versions of the perfect middle England everychild, one tomboyish, smart and dark-haired, the other quieter and fair. On a summer evening, walking through their own quiet town in the middle of the countryside, the two disappeared. We know what happened now, to an extent. Ian Huntley, the school caretaker, killed them. No one, apart from him, knows quite how. And no one, apart from him, knows quite why. But he killed them and his then girlfriend, Maxine Carr, provided the alibi that threw the police off the scent. In a videotaped interview with police just before he was arrested, Huntley is seen with his head in his hands, completely stationary, for 40 seconds. Suddenly, what has happened, what he has done, appears to almost overwhelm him. He attempts to collect himself and says, quietly, almost to himself: 'To think that I might be the last friendly face that these two girls had to speak to before something happened to them.' Huntley was indeed the last face they saw. Friendship was not the emotion. For the first 13 years of his life Ian Huntley didn't have a care in the world. He had a loving mother, a proud father who shared his passion for aeroplanes and a younger brother whom he adored. One family picture says it all: Ian, laughing loudly, is nestled up on an armchair alongside his mother, Lynda. His father, Kevin, is on the floor, resting his head between Ian's knees. He too is smiling and has turned his spectacles upside down. Ian's younger brother, Wayne, sits on the other arm of the chair, playing along. Ian Kevin Huntley was born in 1974 on 31 January, in the port of Immingham just outside Grimsby. His father regularly took his boys to the docks to watch the giant ships, but Ian's real passion was planes, especially military aircraft. Twenty years later, his house at Soham would feature a prominent framed picture of a jet fighter on a wall of the living room. His favourite plane-spotting haunt would be the burial site for the bodies of Holly and Jessica. The first sign of trouble came soon after Ian began at secondary school. Initially he was sent to a school five miles from his home, disliked it and returned to the local comprehensive. But by the time Ian joined, his fellow pupils had been together for more than 18 months. They had forged friendships and had little time for outsiders. Huntley soon developed a reputation as a hanger-on, desperate for acceptance. It wasn't to be. His large forehead earned him the nicknames of 'The White Cliff of Dover' and 'Spacehead'. It was difficult, but not life-changing. That moment came when, at the age of 13, he caught his father in bed with the family's 16-year-old babysitter. Until then Ian and his father had been close, but now Kevin lashed out, viciously beating his son and making him swear not to tell what he had seen. Huntley began a life of lying. Like many victims of bullying, Huntley soon turned into a bully himself. At the age of 15 he vented his anger on 14-year-old Tony Smith, who had found a tennis ball and started playing with it. Huntley confronted the younger boy and screamed at him: 'What the fuck do you think you're doing, that's my ball.' Huntley placed his hands around Smith's neck and began strangling him. In the end, Huntley told his mother about what he had seen his father doing. Devastated, she moved out of the family home, taking Ian and Wayne with her. Although she returned a few weeks later, the relationship between her and her husband was deeply strained. Kevin began drinking heavily and became increasingly violent. His rages would always be directed at Ian and it marked the beginning of a deep rift between the two. Doctors would later agree that this constant abuse from his father had a terrible and long-standing effect on Huntley. He took one menial job after another, working in the Heinz factory and later packing babies' nappies at the Kimberly-Clark plant. His only escape came from chatting up the girls he met in the pubs around Grimsby. More often than not, he turned to lies in an effort to impress them. He often pretended that he had been a pilot in the RAF. He sometimes said that he had been a store manager. At 18 Huntley tried to commit suicide for the first time, taking a massive overdose of pills belonging to his father. He later told doctors that he had done it because he was depressed over the state of his parents' marriage. Huntley tried to take his life again on two separate occasions in June 1994. Then, five months later, he met 17-year-old Claire Evans in Grimsby. It was such a whirlwind romance that none of Claire's family even knew about the hurried register office marriage between the two which took place in January 1995. But within days the marriage was on the rocks and Claire moved out. Wayne went to comfort Claire - and an affair began. A month later Wayne confessed to his brother. The revelation led to a bitter feud and the pair did not speak for more than a year. Wayne and Claire later married. Ian was reportedly devastated. 'He went mad,' said one friend. 'He kept saying he was going to kick his brother's head in.' It is no coincidence that just six months after the collapse of his marriage Huntley came to the attention of the authorities for the first time. The parents of a 15-year-old girl had contacted social services. A 21-year-old man was sleeping with their under-age daughter. Huntley, with his self-pride at a low ebb, had embarked on a penchant for under-age sex. The younger the girls, the easier they were for Huntley to control. Desperate to restore his pride, he preyed on schoolgirls, most of them 14 and 15 years old. His combination of charm and bullying tactics, drugs and alcohol, paid dividends. He would force the girls to have sex with him, regardless of their objections. So successful were his predatory instincts that a harem of 14-year-old girls, still wearing their school uniforms, would call round most days to his modest bedsit. By the age of 21 he had slept with as many as a dozen under-age girls, many of them in the same class. Nine times during the next few years complaints were made against him for a string of sexual offences. Some involved girls as young as 11. Despite a series of investigations by Humberside Police, not a single conviction resulted. Huntley's urges, though, were becoming increasingly harder to satisfy, his temperament increasingly violent. Each case involving Huntley that filtered through to the attention of the police became inexorably more serious than the previous. Three years after the first allegation of under-age sex against him, Huntley was under investigation for rape. In the space of 15 months between the spring of 1998 and the following summer, Huntley was accused of the offence four times. Eventually he was charged with raping a woman in a notorious dimly lit walkway known as Gas Alley. But again the case collapsed. In July 1999 Claire and Wayne married, and Huntley, his insecurity more profound than ever, had a hard time coping with the attention and disparaging remarks from local gossips. By the end of the decade, many in Grimsby had begun branding Huntley a paedophile. In 1999 his flat in Veal Street was attacked, his windows were smashed and his front door broken down. Ironically, meeting Maxine Carr and being accepted for the job in Soham represented the first taste of stability Huntley had known for years. The heavily subsidised rent of his three-bedroom, semi-detached house at 5 College Close was just £25 per week, leaving plenty of his £16,000 salary to indulge himself. Even his parents had managed to patch up their differences and get back together. But Huntley's lies continued long after he met Carr - and, as would be the case years later, she was only too happy to support them. A few days before the couple moved to Soham they told a neighbour Ian had been offered a job in America and they wanted to start a new life there. A chance of freedom. It was another lie. Within an hour of that first television bulletin on 5 August, the first time anyone outside the police and the tense, frantic parents, had heard of Holly and Jessica's disappearance, more than 500 people were scouring the streets of Soham. Everyone, police and a growing legion of concerned locals, was looking for something, anything, to tell them that this had been some kind of horrible mistake and Holly and Jessica would turn up safe and well. As with most police forces, Cambridgeshire started a 'ticking clock', marking off each day of the investigation with a number. Day 1 of the inquiry started the moment Sharon Chapman, Jessica's mother, rang the police at 9.55pm on Sunday, 4 August. She had already spoken to her friend and mother of Holly, Nicola Wells, earlier that evening. 'You know they don't do this,' she said. 'It is too long.' The first police officers arrived at the Chapmans' home at 10.30pm. Stevenson was put in charge of reviewing the case. David Beck, an expert hostage negotiator, was in charge of the actual inquiry. It would last for 14 days. Each day would see ups-and-downs, potential blunders and breakthroughs. In exclusive interviews with the key police officers involved and transcripts of interviews police agreed with the BBC and revealed here for the first time, The Observer has been able to piece together a forensic account of how Huntley and Carr were caught. And how a series of fumbles and blind leads nearly allowed Huntley to walk free. Huntley, the caretaker at Soham Community College, the school Holly and Jessica attended, was one of the first people the police interviewed. He gave a statement saying that he had seen the girls at 6pm. He said that the two girls had asked after Maxine Carr, his girlfriend and former classroom assistant at the girls' school. He did not mention his later alibi, that Carr had been in the bath upstairs in the house. She was in fact 100 hundred miles north in Grimsby. The police searched the house. But it was an 'abduction search', a superficial look for two missing people, rather than a forensic 'murder search', a hunt for a killer. If it had been the latter, the police may have found evidence about what had actually happened to the girls inside the house. By the time they executed a forensic search on Day 10 of the inquiry, Huntley and Carr had cleaned the whole house and destroyed much of the evidence. The police defend their actions. Huntley was only one of more than 30 people who could at that stage have been the last person to see the girls. 'There were loads of people who could have been the last ones to see them alive,' Stevenson said. 'What do I do? I mean, a member of the public is driving down the road and they see two girls and they report it. Do I seize his car and forensically search that because he might have been the one?' Cambridgeshire Police were starting to worry. The calls were coming in at up to 1,800 a day, more than one a minute. Stevenson was asked to carry out a review. Usually it was left to Day 7 of a major inquiry. This was done on Day 3. Stevenson suggested 24-hour working and a new electronic database to try to handle the information. 'We weren't able to cope,' Stevenson said bluntly. 'It was a mammoth task.' Police had also started investigating more than 300 known paedophiles in Cambridgeshire and Suffolk. By week two of the investigation the police were convinced the two girls had got into a car with someone they knew and had been driven away. They went north, hunting down more possible sightings and east, investigating men on the child sex offences' register. And all along, a few yards from the school, Huntley went about his business. On the first morning he was seen cleaning the car. He drove to Grimsby. He changed the tyres. Carr and Huntley scrubbed the house from top to bottom. He asked odd questions about DNA and whether clothes could be incriminating. He hung around and introduced himself to the police. At 9am on Thursday, 15 August, Day 12, Chris Stevenson was called for a meeting with the chief constable. It lasted 10 minutes. Would Stevenson be prepared to take over the investigation? Yes, he replied. It was time to stop chasing. It was time for someone to put their foot on the ball and decide what the real priorities were. And then came a telephone technician called David Bristow and the first major breakthrough. Huntley, finally, swung into view. Bristow was an expert in 'triangulation', discovering where a mobile telephone could have been switched off by using signal data from surrounding transmission masts. He came up with three areas. Only one appeared to have any relevance as it was the only one that coincided with the route the CCTV cameras and evidence from a number of witnesses had shown Holly and Jessica took. It was directly outside 5 College Close. Huntley became a 'TIE suspect': Trace, interview, eliminate. That night he was discussed at the evening briefing meeting. But the police still did not have much to go on. Checks they had made during the first week with police in Humberside where Huntley was from had revealed nothing. 'He's in the frame,' Stevenson said of Huntley. '[But we] are still being told by Humberside that they've got nothing on this guy. So there are no previous convictions and no current intelligence.' The police had already checked with Humberside, where Huntley was from, about whether he had any 'previous'. The search had come back clean. But Huntley did have previous allegations against him. Of rape. And sexual advances to teenage and younger girls. David Westwood, the Chief Constable of Humberside, blamed the Data Protection Act for forcing his officers to destroy information on allegations, rather than convictions, after one month. Other police forces said such a policy was a nonsense. The data-protection registrar, the man responsible for upholding the Act, said that the legislation exactly allowed the police to hold relevant information for as long as they deemed it necessary in the furtherance of fighting crime. There have been calls for Westwood to resign. How do you explain the inability of Humberside to track Huntley down through their intelligence systems and discover that he had previous allegations of inappropriate behaviour with young girls and allegations of rape? 'You can't,' said Stevenson. In the middle of week two, Huntley made a blunder. He gave a national television interview which was broadcast and re-broadcast around the country. It was seen by Amanda Marshall, a mother of two children from Grimsby. She picked up the telephone to the police. 'The man I have just seen on television has been in court for rape,' she said. The police in Cambridgeshire knew they were on to something. Stevenson sent his own officers to Humberside to begin a paper search of their records. The previous allegations started to come tumbling out. Huntley was now the prime suspect. But what should the police do? Stevenson had believed for a number of days that Holly and Jessica were dead. He ordered that Huntley and Carr be brought in for further questioning. 'It was extremely borderline,' he said. 'The determining factor was the possibility, albeit remote, that Huntley had got Jessica and Holly secured somewhere. If I arrested him and spent three days questioning him, I effectively would have been signing their death warrant.' The television coverage created a host of new leads. People began ringing, saying that Carr had been in Grimsby on the night she claimed she was in the bath upstairs in Huntley's house. Huntley and Carr were interviewed in separate locations in Ely, a city near Soham. They stuck to their tale, that Carr had been in the bath and that Huntley had seen the girls outside his house while he was brushing the dog. He said that he had spoken to them 'for maybe a minute'. At 11.30 that night police finally forensically searched Huntley's house. They found a master key to the hangar. A sergeant started checking the bins. He found the burnt remains of Holly and Jessica's clothes. Huntley's fingerprints were found all over the bin bags. Stevenson was called at just before midnight. He said that Huntley and Carr must now be considered suspects and authorised their arrest. Huntley, under surveillance, had gone to his father's house. A journalist from a national tabloid newspaper approached him and offered him money for his story. The police suddenly realised that the whole inquiry could be compromised. Huntley and Carr were arrested at 4.20am. A few hours later a gamekeeper was walking with his girlfriend near RAF Lakenheath. They noticed a terrible, rotting smell. Investigating a water-filled ditch, they saw two bodies. They telephoned Suffolk police. This was now a 'whodunnit?' How could Huntley and Carr defend themselves and how could the police make every escape route a cul-de-sac? Detective Chief Inspector Andy Hebb, number two in the inquiry team, started with the forensic work. The house had been thoroughly cleaned by Huntley and Carr. The dining-room carpet was freshly shampooed. As were the curtains. The bath was split. Huntley said he had been trying to wash the dog. And then police found Huntley's head hairs on the clothing in the bin. And 10 red fibres from Manchester United tops were found in Huntley's car - 'that was a eureka moment at the time,' Hebb said. And then someone noticed that the tyres on Huntley's car, a red Ford Fiesta, were brand-new. And the boot liner of the car had been changed. And there was a pair of scissors in the boot for cutting clothes. And the soil on the underside of the car could only have come from the track leading to where the bodies were found. And the pollen on the car could only come from that area. And that the trampled nettles had grown back in such a way that it tied the date down specifically to when Huntley would have been there. And every piece meant that Huntley and Carr had fewer places to run. Carr had lied. When the police presented the evidence to Huntley's defence team, his response either had to be 'guilty' or fantastical. Huntley chose the latter. Yes, the girls had been in the house. Yes, they had died. Yes, he was there. But it wasn't murder. It was an accident. 'He had to come up with some explanation for that forensic case,' Hebb said. 'We had covered every avenue. He had nowhere to go. All the jigsaw was coming together slowly. It was a good feeling.' Why? Why did Huntley do what he did? The police admit that their stabs at an explanation are just that. Psychologists, unless Huntley talks, will have similar difficulty ever finding out. 'The only explanation we have, and it's just putting two and two together, is that Carr's gone away and Huntley doesn't like her being away and he's extremely jealous,' Hebb said. 'And he gets a call from Carr and hangs up, and he's annoyed, and with the history he's got, and then the two girls walk past ... ' Hebb's voice trails off. 'It's just one of those things, I think.' And Carr? The girls were her friends. Huntley's behaviour was bizarre in the extreme. She must have had her suspicions. 'Rather cynically, is how I view it,' Hebb said of Carr's tearful performance in the witness box where all she would admit to was that she had covered up for Huntley because he had previously been 'falsely' accused of rape. 'They came from a fairly difficult background in Grimsby,' Hebb said. 'Then they got this new, nice lifestyle in Cambridgeshire, she was getting employment, it was all good, when suddenly, bang, it's all changed. 'I think she had to protect her lifestyle, not just Huntley, but her lifestyle. 'She was an incredibly convincing liar, not just lying about the event but gilding it, right down to the tiny details. And yet she wasn't even there.'