 Daily Mirror  Editorial, July 29 "In many people's eyes, Tony Martin is a hero. A highly unlikely one of course. His fame comes from killing a 16-year-old boy. But Mr Martin has come to symbolise something important about the state of Britain today ... "What he has come to stand for is a crucial part of the debate about law and order in this country, and it would be not just foolish but also dangerous to ignore it ... There must be a proper balance between those who break the law because they are victims and those who are victims only because they have broken the law. There would be no martyrdom for Mr Martin, no red-hot political issue, no great issue tearing the nation apart, if Bleak House had been given minimal protection. That is the real challenge facing the police and government. That is why it is so vital that Mr Martin's full story is told."  Richard Littlejohn Sun, July 29"From the beginning, the persecution of this quiet, eccentric farmer has had one aim - to show us all who's boss. If there's one thing the police and the criminal justice brigade hate above all else it's someone who 'takes the law into his own hands' ... There is said to be a £60,000 bounty on Mr Martin's head and police are taking the threats seriously ... I wonder if it has occurred to them that if they'd had a police station in his village, or even one within 20 miles, four years ago, Fred Barras might still be alive and Mr Martin would never have gone to prison." Daily Mail Editorial, July 29 "What [Mr Martin] did was undoubtedly wrong. Never forget that a 16-year-old boy lies dead. But would Mr Martin have been driven to his desperate act if Norfolk police hadn't conspicuously failed to protect his lonely farmhouse, despite repeated burglaries? ... Until the law is changed to give householders more protection in their own homes, the public has every right to feel abandoned and betrayed."  Independent  Editorial, July 29 "Whatever may become of Mr Martin, it seems that he will not be short of money. The Daily Mirror is thought to have secured the rights to Mr Martin's story for £100,000 ... Then there are the rights to his book, which apparently carries the less than charming working title of My Right to Kill. It is a choice of title that suggests an unpleasant tendency to arrogance, as indeed does Mr Martin's refusal to acknowledge any remorse for his act of manslaughter. "The press complaints commission is supposed to prevent criminals making money from their crimes. In the light of its recent harsh treatment of the Guardian for its payment for a prisoner's article about Lord Archer, it is puzzling that the PCC has done little to prevent Mr Martin cashing in on his fame beyond writing a letter to the editor of the Mirror."  Herald Editorial, Glasgow, July 29 "The Daily Mirror justifies its fee by arguing that the case raises issues of public interest relating to crime and victims' rights. The newspaper is wrong. Mr Martin's case has been one of the most widely discussed of recent years. There can be few facts yet to emerge that have not been aired in court or in the press. Rural crime is on the way down. Most importantly, Mr Martin is not the only victim here, if indeed he is one at all. Far from being treated harshly, he has benefited from a degree of mercy ... "No one has emerged unscathed ... A teenager is dead, his family left to mourn for ever. A man has been wounded and Mr Martin, who has received death threats, will be left to rebuild a life of sorts after the media circus has moved on. Far from being a cause celebre, the Bleak Farm case should now be left to fade to a close."  Times  Editorial, July 29 "Neither Mr Martin nor those who burgled his dilapidated property really emerge as innocent, let alone admirable, characters. Those who have chosen to stretch the recommendations of the PCC barring payments to convicted criminals to the limit and beyond have hardly helped the cause of press self-regulation ... "Those media outlets that have rashly opened up their chequebooks should close them. Ministers might pause for further reflection before considering changing the law relating to self- defence simply in response to this bizarre high-profile controversy."  Wall Street Journal Europe  Editorial, July 29  "[Mr Martin's] story is one that resonates across Europe ... Sadly for the country that used to believe 'an Englishman's home is his castle', things are only likely to get worse. The home secretary's most recent inspiration is that criminals can apologise to victims instead of facing jail. This is designed to reduce Britain's problem of overcrowding in prisons. It is likely to produce more burglaries of the sort Mr Martin faced. "Maybe it's time Britain looked across the Atlantic and realised that the reason why crime in the US continues to fall - while in Britain and the rest of Europe it continues to rise - is due to a far less tolerant attitude toward crime. A government's first priority should be to reduce crime rather than prison populations, and to protect honest citizens rather than criminals."