Britain will on Monday take steps towards opting out of a series of EU law and order measures in a move designed by the Tories to show that they are living up to their pre-election Eurosceptic pledges.As Michael Gove, the education secretary, became the latest cabinet minister to signal that Britain may have to leave the EU, Theresa May, the home secretary, was preparing a statement to MPs in which she will say that the government is "minded" to exercise Britain's right to opt out of scores of EU justice measures.Her statement comes after Vince Cable issued a dire warning of a collapse in the euro. Speaking at the Cheltenham literature festival, the business secretary said the EU would need to take stock if the euro unravels. "We tend to forget, until we were reminded last week of that Nobel prize, the European project was constructed in order to rescue Europe from extreme nationalism and conflict. There is no automatic guarantee that won't return."The Liberal Democrats are digging in their heels on the EU after Nick Clegg blocked May from making a definitive statement of intent on law and order. He wants the decision to be made in the interests of fighting crime and for it not to be used by the Tories to burnish their Eurosceptic credentials. One senior Lib Dem said: "We will not let Eurosceptic obsessions endanger the safety of the British people. This is not about euro dogma. This is about people's safety."May will announce to MPs that the government is "minded" to invoke powers secured by Tony Blair during the Lisbon treaty negotiations to opt out of about 140 EU law and order measures. The Tories and Lib Dems agree it is right to do this as justice and home affairs issues will change their status in 2014 when individual national vetoes are ended in this area. But the coalition parties have yet to agree on the second stage of the process secured by Blair – working out how many areas Britain should opt back into – because Clegg is playing hardball.The deputy prime minister, who has instructed the Treasury chief secretary Danny Alexander to negotiate with Oliver Letwin, is keen for Britain to maintain the European arrest warrant. This was used to apprehend one of the July 2005 bombers.He also supports Europe's Police Intelligence Agency (Europol), which helped uncover the world's largest paedophile network, and the Joint Investigative Team. This allowed British police officers to work in France after the murders of members of a British family in Annecy last month.Lib Dem peer Lord Oakeshott said: "Cameron, Gove and May should know better than to throw red meat to the rabidly anti-European Tory Right and Ukip. They're indistinguishable and insatiable. It's a gift to criminals across Europe if we throw our toys out of the pram on the European arrest warrant and then try to put them back in again one by one."The Lib Dems are citing a letter to Cameron and Clegg, signed by the former Metropolitan police commissioner Lord Blair and the former MI5 director Sir Stephen Lander, which called on Britain not to abandon its European partners. The letter says: "As former members of the British policing, justice and security community, we wish to indicate why we support remaining within those current structures."The growth in cross-border criminal activity within Europe is both an inevitable bi-product of the free movement of goods, services, capital and people under the single market, and a serious policing and security challenge. Responding to an increasingly international criminal environment requires modern international legal and policing tools, fast and effective cross-border cooperation, and the ability to raise standards and share best practice with our closest security partners."In a rare intervention, the most senior British official in the European commission called last night for a "sensible debate". Jonathan Faull, director general of internal market services, tweeted: "On #EU JHA and opt-ins/outs, hope we have sensible debate about European arrest warrant and other measures."The row came after Gove briefed the Mail on Sunday that Britain should be prepared to leave the EU if its 26 partners refuse to repatriate powers to Britain when a treaty negotiation is held to change the governance structures of the eurozone.He joins Iain Duncan Smith, Owen Paterson and Oliver Letwin who are calling for Britain to make clear Britain will leave unless it secures a significant repatriation of powers.