Probation officers last night warned of the danger of reprisal attacks from Monday when it will become compulsory for the tens of thousands of offenders on community punishments to wear high-visibility orange vests.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, has demanded that the 35,000 offenders on Community Payback schemes, including those involving unpaid work, should wear the high-visibility vests so that the public is able to see them working.But Napo, the probation union, says that shootings and attacks by rival gangs have already taken place in areas where the orange jackets have been piloted.In one incident in Newham, east London, last June, a gang shot at an individual offender while he was cleaning up leaves and debris; an internal probation report identified the high visibility vest as "a contributory factor".In a second gang-related incident, in north Liverpool, a 20-year-old was shot in the leg while working on a community scheme. In another incident in the area an individual painting railings was attacked and suffered a broken nose. Another offender was attacked as he walked to a placement and given a severe beating.Harry Fletcher of Napo said the introduction of the vests should be delayed on the grounds of easy identification and targeting of offenders. The probation officers want work placements that are risk-assessed as too dangerous to be exempt from the need to wear the vests."The government is claiming that this initiative is being introduced to raise public awareness," said Fletcher. "That can be done in other ways, for example, by a plaque after the work is completed. The real intention of the vests is to make the government look tough on crime and to demean the offenders."But a Ministry of Justice spokeswoman said: "We agree with the public who strongly believe that justice must be done, but also seen to be done. We are committed to the continued transformation of the justice sytem into a service for victims and witnesses - one where people know it is on the side of the law-abiding majority."To do this we must open up the system further, making it more transparent and showing people through clear examples such as tough, visible community payback."She added that if there was evidence that there were concerns for the safety of staff or offenders then consideration would be given to whether the jackets were appropriate in that individual case.A justice ministry circular sent to probation staff says that from December 1 all offenders on community sentences must wear a distinctive orange high-visibility vest or jacket with the Community Payback project logo on the front and the words "Community Payback" on the back. The wording has to be in purple and be no less than 30mm high.· This article was amended on Saturday November 29 2008. We said that an offender on community punishment was shot at by a gang while he was cleaning up leaves and debris. The incident took place in Newham, on June 16, rather than in Hackney as we reported. This has been corrected.