I cannot read of the death of another train robber – in this case of the mastermind of the gang, Bruce Reynolds, at the age of 81 – without wondering what all the fuss is about and why, 50 years later, the Great Train Robbery continues to fascinate the media and the public to the point where broadcasters and publishing companies are preparing to mark its anniversary in August.The facts about the robbery are better known than almost any historical episode from the period. Every life touched by it is tinged with sadness and disappointment. The robbers are dead, or at such an advanced age that the Michael Caine-cool of their arrests and court appearances is a distant memory. The jailbreaks, the betrayals, the flights to Latin America, the dogged coppers, the loyal and faithless doxies, should surely be consigned to the bin marked cold potatoes, along with the Kray twins, the Profumo affair and the distraught love life of Princess Margaret.The thing that prevents the Great Train Robbery and its diamond geezer participants from achieving any kind of glamour or romance, in my mind, is quite simply stupidity. A criminal mastermind should at least be smarter than the average lamppost and, while Bruce Reynolds certainly acquired a taste for books and jazz in later life and liked to quote from Jean Genet and David Mamet, his masterminding of the robbery had several basic flaws. The planning reeks of habitual English failure, the amateurism of an Ealing comedy, particularly of The Lavender Hill Mob, in which, you will remember, the gang melted down the stolen gold and exported it to Paris as Eiffel Tower souvenirs, only to find they'd been sold to a party of schoolgirls.Instead of immediately dividing the haul of £2.6m and going their separate ways, the train robbers decamped to Leatherslade farm, just 27 miles from Sears Crossing, where they had stopped the Royal Mail train and clubbed the driver, Jack Mills. They hung out there, counted their loot and played Monopoly with real money, leaving their dabs all over the Monopoly board and on, among other things, a bottle of sauce. It eventually occurred to them that the farm was a poor idea. After some trouble finding new cars, they each scarpered with £150,000 in cash, about £2.4m in today's money, and went on the run.A person named "Mark" was paid £10,000 to clean up the farm but this he spectacularly failed to do, leaving all 121 torn mail bags and a host of familiar fingerprints for the police to find. The farm hideout might conceivably have worked, if Mark had done his job, but to leave the clean-up to one nitwit was catastrophically dumb, and it was this that put so many of them behind bars. The other point was that Reynolds had selected the robbers from a pool of known faces: once the police had a couple of names, it wasn't hard to infer the rest.Compare the Great Train Robbery to the slick, continental panache of the diamond heist at Brussels airport two weeks ago, when masked men, armed with machine guns and dressed as police, drove up to a Helvetic Airways passenger plane on the runway and removed £30m-worth of diamonds that had just been delivered to the plane by Brinks. You can be certain the gang of eight aren't smoking cigars and tipping sauce on their takeaways at some local farm. They immediately burnt the getaway vehicle and vanished.So, with respect, Reynolds was no mastermind, but simply a rebel who had failed to get a job as a journalist on the Daily Mail and was in consequence working out his frustration. Our great mythic heist is a mess from beginning to end. Even when some gang members had escaped, the mugs kept returning to England to be caught. Reynolds came back from Mexico to Torquay, where a detective named Tommy Butler nabbed him, and all Bruce could think to say was, "C'est la vie".The cocky, criminal resignation of the phrase is striking. If the majority of the gang did not want to be caught, they certainly expected to be caught and, like all the celebrated failures in English criminal history before them, succumbed to the will of authority.There is a pattern that dictates failure. The famous early 18th-century thief Jack Sheppard – on whom John Gay based Macheath in The Beggar's Opera – was imprisoned and escaped four times. He was caught again and hanged at Tyburn, amid scenes of hysteria. His foe, Jonathan Wild, the first organised gangster in English history, who also served as Thief-Taker General, was brought down as a result of the Sheppard case and also dispatched at Tyburn, where tickets were sold in advance for the best view. The two men were loved and destroyed by the London public with equal glee.Writing their place in history were Gay, Daniel Defoe and Henry Fielding. Later, during the 19th century, another writer, the Earl of Birkenhead, described the thief Charles Peace, who was hanged for murder, as "a man of sordid villainy and artistic tastes". This could easily have applied to Bruce Reynolds, whom the Guardian reported was a fan of Norman Mailer, JG Ballard and Scott Fitzgerald.But the point is not simply about Reynolds's reform and late literary connoisseurship. Over the last three centuries, the world of literature and a class of daring criminals have fed off each other. The writers confer immortality, while the thieves provide wonderful copy. For good reason, Sheppard and Wild's notoriety coincided with the explosion of newspapers in London. The double-dealing Wild actually fed stories to any of the dozen London newspapers of the time, using them to boost his reputation and further his ends – just as Ronnie Biggs consorted with the Sun and Daily Express; just as Reynolds wanted to work for the Mail and sought recognition for his book – The Autobiography of a Thief – among the posher titles.Print and thieving come together with mutual benefits. The value of newspaper and book sales following the Great Train Robbery far exceeded even the amount taken from the Glasgow to Euston service, while the gang became charismatic folk heroes. But the deeper needs of an ordered society dictate that this story never ends well for the robber. He must fail to be honoured, which is why the Great Train Robbery is just all too familiar for me.