A jealous and controlling martial arts enthusiast has been found guilty of murdering his girlfriend moments after she told him she was ending their relationship.Laura Davies, 21, suffered at least 80 stab wounds in the attack at the Essex Horse and Pony Protection Society base in Basildon, where she lived and worked as a groom, in July last year. Chelmsford crown court heard that the attack was so forceful that the knife used was bent to a 45-degree angle.Unemployed Jordan Taylor, 22, denied the murder but was found guilty by a jury on Thursday. He will be sentenced on Friday.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Laura Davies. Photograph: PAThe court heard that Davies cooked a meal for Taylor in the flat they shared and told him that although the relationship was over he could continue living there as she did not want to make him homeless. Prosecutors said the attack began inside the flat and then continued outside as she tried to flee in her pyjamas. CCTV footage showed the defendant attempting to hoist Davies’ near-lifeless body over a hedge out of view. Her family said she had been unhappy after he had begun telling her what to wear, prevented her from going out and taken control of her bank account. Her mother, Dyanne Lambert, told the court that Taylor would not allow Davies to wear short-sleeved or low-cut tops, and they would often argue. “She became very quiet and didn’t want to talk about what was going on,” Lambert said. Giving evidence on the third day of his trial, Taylor alleged that his partner of six months had lunged at him with the knife and he had “stupidly” grabbed it. He denied purposefully making disfiguring cuts to Davies’ face and left breast as “punishment” for trying to end the relationship before eventually killing her. Punam Malhan, senior district crown prosecutor for East of England Crown Prosecution Service, said: “This was a vicious and sustained attack involving 80 separate wounds. Jordan Taylor’s actions were a result of a jealous rage after Laura ended their relationship. His actions have needlessly ended a young woman’s life and robbed her of any future. “We are committed to bringing cases of domestic violence to court and to securing a conviction; in this case it means Taylor will spend many years behind bars for this horrific attack. Laura’s family, friends and work colleagues all spoke of a beautiful young woman who loved her work with animals at the sanctuary and we hope the conviction of Mr Taylor for her murder brings some comfort to them in their loss.”