Tony Blair yesterday claimed that "a proper desire to protect at all costs the civil liberties of the innocent" had produced a criminal justice system in Britain that was "cumbersome, out of date, and ineffectual in convicting the guilty".The prime minister acknowledged that he expected some of the reforms contained in the government's proposed overhaul of the criminal justice system, to be published next month, would prove controversial. But in an implied criticism of the liberal left who had battled in the 1980s against miscarriages of justice such as the Birmingham Six, Mr Blair suggested that the "biggest miscarriage of justice in today's system is when the guilty walk away unpunished". Mr Blair's rhetoric will do little to calm the fears of figures in the criminal justice system who have expressed alarm at the "anti-defendant tone" of the white paper due out next month. Mr Blair told a London crime conference: "The days of the old hobby horses about the police and how they treated people, the days of believing the whole issue is simply around how we give better protection to defendants - I believe those have changed. Not that people of my generation want any reduction in protection for defendants. We want to convict the guilty." Mr Blair gave few details of the changes that will be unveiled next month but he made clear that they would include "clearer, simpler rules of evidence" and the introduction of a criminal code to restore the faith of victims that they too could get justice. The prime minister also made clear he was to press ahead with legislation to cut off the child benefit of the parents of persistent truants and the housing benefit of tenants convicted of anti-social behaviour. Mr Blair revealed that ministers were to revive ideas for a compulsory work scheme for criminals given community penalties. He confirmed that next month's white paper on the criminal justice system would contain proposals to include the crown prosecution service in charging suspects; to repeal the double jeopardy rule in serious cases, including murder, when "overwhelming" new evidence emerged; and to give the prosecution the power to challenge judges who stopped trials on technical grounds. To reduce the "obstinately high" reoffending rate of former prisoners, the package would include better post-release supervision of those leaving prison and an end to the automatic early release of violent and dangerous offenders. Support for Mr Blair came from the chairman of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Sir David Phillips, who condemned the criminal justice system for treating juries as if they were "stupid and bigoted", saying there was almost an assumption that the panels were made up of "rednecks". Urging the use of similar fact evidence in trial and a relaxation of laws to allow the admissibility of previous convictions, Sir David said that juries should be trusted to try people on all the appropriate evidence. "They are either fit to try the case on the evidence, or they are not fit to try at all." But the director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, warned against the "lock 'em up culture" and argued that it was dangerous for police officers to suggest informally that prison was the best solution for offenders. "We need a smaller prison population. We desperately need to ensure that prison is only used for those that need to be there - dangerous and violent offenders."