Today the judge will deliver his verdict. Sir William Macpherson will rule on the Metropolitan Police and its Commissioner, of course, but also on the rest of us.His report on the death of Stephen Lawrence will tell us much about our attitude to race and even make an unexpected request. It will ask us to rethink the very way our society is organised. The initial impulse will be to narrow the judge's fire. 'Let this be the fault of one man,' will be the cry, with Sir Paul Condon the appointed victim. With him gone, we could comfort ourselves that action had been taken. Macpherson could then be filed away on the shelf marked Scott, Scarman and Franks and gently forgotten.  But Sir William is saying something much more troubling. He is not condemning one man, but an entire institution. We may not want to hear it, but that's his message.  A secondary instinct, one contained within the Macpherson report itself, will be to lurch to the other extreme. In our determination to root out the decay exposed by Sir William's inquiry, we could end up committing a few travesties of justice of our own: two in particular.  The judge is said to favour an end to the ancient rule of 'double jeopardy', which prevents anyone being tried for the same crime twice - and which notoriously stopped prosecutors having a second crack at the five men widely believed to be Stephen Lawrence's killers.  For anyone who wants to see those five hoodlums brought to justice, Macpherson's proposal must sound like a Godsend. But it would be a terrible mistake. Double jeopardy protects a crucial liberty: the freedom from persecution by the state. Without it, police could hound an innocent, forcing him to be tried and tried again, until they had eventually found a jury ready to convict. It would be like allowing one side to keep replaying a football match until they had won. And, as John Wadham of Liberty points out, the racism rife within our criminal justice system means the likeliest group to be hurt by such a change would be the ethnic minorities. In making amends for one victim of police racism, Sir William could inadvertently create a whole lot more. The second threat is just as troubling. Sir William reportedly wants to make a crime of racist language uttered in private. Under this change, the Eltham Five could be done for the Nazi filth they were caught spouting on that infamous police surveillance video. Nevertheless, such a change should alarm civil libertarians everywhere. It would be a basic violation of free speech, banning thoughts not because they might incite violence but simply for being expressed. Imagine the implications: the police could bug a house on the grounds of the opinions being voiced inside. It would be a licence to create a new troop of thought police.  Both threats arise from a desire to correct every specific that went wrong in the Lawrence case. Yet the real problem is general: it's about the values and prejudices of the police - and society.  The Met will be excoriated today for its failure to look like the community it protects. It serves a city among the most ethnically diverse in the world, yet all but a handful of its senior officers are white. Sir William will try to change that today, by ordering the force to change, through a variety of recruitment and awareness schemes.  But his words should travel much further. For few of Britain's institutions can boast a record much better than the police. Between five and six per cent of Britons are black or Asian, yet the bodies which represent and govern us still look 100 per cent white. As a characteristically verbless Tony Blair told the Labour Party conference in 1997: 'Not one black high court judge; not one black chief constable or permanent secretary; not one black army officer above the rank of colonel. Not one Asian either. Not a record of pride for the British establishment.' Nor for the British media. London newsrooms are still predominantly whey-faced: one former news editor of a national broadsheet used to address a black colleague as 'boy'. Change is not impossible. The BBC has pushed itself, and the result is more black and Asian voices and faces on the air. Britain's corporations have also realised that diversity is a strength, bland uniformity a weakness. Our pop culture - music, films and fashion - has long drawn on the riches offered by the newest Britons. Yet our democratic machinery has lagged behind. Take the job of Met Commissioner. If Sir Paul Condon was directly accountable to the voters of London, with its 25 per cent ethnic electorate, is it conceivable he would have allowed this case to have been conducted so incompetently? If he had had to face the voters, as police chiefs do in some of America's biggest cities, would he not have realised his job was on the line? Or if not the Commissioner himself, what about a London mayor who might appoint him? In New York, Rudy Guiliani knows he gets the credit if crime goes down - and the blame if something goes wrong. He would never have allowed a Lawrence debacle to take place on his watch. He would have sacked 'the Commish' and demanded justice. Otherwise, the voters would have stripped him of his job. Londoners do not have that power and are not about to get it. Under Clause 212 of the new London mayoralty bill, the appointment of the Met Commissioner remains in the hands of the Home Secretary. The mayor will merely be invited to 'make representations'. The accountability of election - exerting the same disciplining effect on officials that competition has on companies - will be missing. For all his radicalism, Sir William seems to have missed this democratic piece of the jigsaw. A bolder plan would have suggested, if not an elected police chief, then at least one picked by the elected mayor. It might even have gone further, advocating devolution of most law enforcement responsibilities to neighbourhood police departments - one for Brixton, another for Barnet. If Chris Patten can think the unthinkable for the RUC, including disbandment, maybe we need to do the same for the Met. Perhaps Sir William is right and the institution itself is rotten. We might have to start rebuilding it, along with so many of the other institutions of British life. Their crime is serious: they no longer reflect the people we have become.