Once again reality outstrips the imagination. Now we see that even the most gifted weavers of children's nightmares, from JK Rowling to Roald Dahl, made the same basic error. Their creations, whether Voldemort, Miss Trunchbull or the blood-curdling Child Catcher, advertised their evil, signalling it from a thousand paces. They were villains who never posed as anything else. Now we know those authors missed a trick. For how much more terrifying is the evildoer who pretends to be good – the devil who tries, and succeeds, in passing himself off as a saint?Half a century has passed since Philip Roth complained on behalf of his fellow novelists that "the actuality is continually outdoing our talents", and so it has proved once more. Neither Rowling nor Dahl would have dared conjure up a story like the one that has unspooled these last two weeks, the tale of a man venerated as a national treasure who did not just force himself on underage girls but who preyed on the most vulnerable victims one could imagine – the disabled and the brain-damaged – stalking children's homes and hospitals to find them. And imagine the cruelty of this twist: that the charity and good works he performed did not just insulate this predator from challenge; those deeds may well have been undertaken for the express purpose of gaining unfettered access to children.The story is so extreme, the details so lurid – the staff at several hospitals granting Jimmy Savile a private room as well as keys to secure wards, giving him the run of those institutions day and night; the Met now following a staggering 340 potential lines of inquiry – that it is easy to regard the episode as too exceptional to have any wider implications. On this reading, Savile was in a unique position which, to be sure, he abused but which renders his case a one-off. Yes, the BBC must investigate whether its staff acted as enablers or, better word, accomplices to Savile's crimes but, beyond that, this story belongs in a horrible, freakish category of one.That would be a mistake. In fact, the Savile case merely draws – in admittedly wild, vivid colours – a wider picture that is all too common. Take each of the constituent parts – a powerful man, vulnerable victims and authorities that fail – and you see that this tale is numbingly familiar.Start with the victims. There has been much Life on Mars-style amazement at 1970s attitudes that apparently regarded young girls as legitimate recreational interest for older men and which were clearly not held by Savile alone. Witness John Peel bragging in 1989 about his past American conquests: "Oral sex they were particularly keen on. I remember one of my regular customers, as it were, turned out to be 13, though she looked older." Pause at the use of "customers" and recall that Peel eventually married one of these underage girls: he was 25, she was 15.We like to think all that's in the past now, that these days we understand and therefore exhibit zero tolerance for child abuse. But the facts suggest otherwise. There are the high-profile cases – the ring of Rochdale abusers finally jailed this summer, the paedophile priests of the Catholic church – but those are merely the most visible instances of a stubbornly permanent fixture in the national landscape."What I am uncovering is that sexual exploitation of children is happening all over the country," Sue Berelowitz, deputy children's commissioner for England, told MPs in June. She quoted a police officer from a "very lovely, leafy, rural part of the country" who had told her: "There isn't a town, village or hamlet in which children are not being sexually exploited." She told of girls as young as 11 "summoned" via BlackBerry Messenger, and forced to perform oral sex on a line-up of gang members, one after another. Berelowitz called on MPs and everyone else to "lay aside their denial" and wake up to what's going on.If Savile benefited from the blind eye still turned to child abuse, he enjoyed too the curious protection granted to so many rapists: the refusal to believe the victims. When a patient at Broadmoor high-security hospital, whom Savile had repeatedly abused, threatened to report him, the DJ "laughed in her face, and said that nobody would believe her and he could do what he liked", according to Naomi Stanley, a former nurse at the institution. In that, the late TV "personality" was simply expressing out loud and explicitly what many rapists both think to themselves and quietly rely on.And with good reason. This week the Metropolitan police's sex crime unit, Sapphire, announced a restructuring after a detective admitted 13 counts of misconduct, for failing to investigate 10 rapes and three sexual assault cases. Another Sapphire detective is under investigation for similar offences. Sapphire has already been restructured before, in 2009, after police had failed to stop multiple rapists John Worboys and Kirk Reid. The key error in both cases? Failing to believe the victims.Women Against Rape reckon just 7% of rapes end in a conviction. Little wonder that the latest London figures show a 15% drop in reported rapes: too many women refuse to go to the police because they have little confidence they will be heard. That is especially true when their rapist is powerful and enjoys a position of public trust, as Savile did on a national scale.There are big questions here for the police. Some wonder if the Met is overdue another "Macpherson moment", in which it is forced to confront its own institutional sexism the way the Stephen Lawrence case laid bare its racism. It is at least clear that it has enormous work to do to win the trust of women, so that it becomes a first instinct of those who are attacked to report the fact.But just as racism can never be an issue solely for its victims, so rape cannot be a concern for women alone. Scotland has just launched a campaign, We Can Stop It, targeted at young men, urging them to become the "kind of guy" who doesn't have sex with women who are drunk, asleep or otherwise cannot consent. It is a good start.And a necessary one because, while the Jimmy Savile story is darker than even the bleakest, most pessimistic minds could have imagined, its worst aspects did not die with him. They haunt us still.Twitter: @j_freedland