Police investigating the murder of the London teenager Ben Kinsella appealed for witnesses yesterday and offered guarantees of anonymity to anyone afraid to testify. Detective Chief Inspector John Macdonald, who is heading the inquiry into the stabbing of the 16-year-old outside a north London nightclub early on Sunday, was keen to assure anyone who might be worried by a recent House of Lords ruling on the use of anonymous testimony in trials."There is no issue with protecting witnesses," he said. "The House of Lords decision doesn't hinder the investigation. With the support of the police and parents you can make a stand. The idea that you have your name taken and your photo appears in the paper is nonsense. Come forward, then it's up to the police to persuade you [to testify]. If we don't persuade you, we don't persuade you."Macdonald said police believed they had identified the most important people involved in the killing, but wanted a fuller picture of events. "In Shillibeers [nightclub] there were maybe 100-150 people. We've spoken to people who haven't necessarily given us full accounts. The number of people around doesn't tally with the amount of people who were there," he said. He thought that there were around 15-20 witnesses in the immediate area who may have seen the lead-up to the stabbing, or who saw the suspects running away. "All these people are important," he said."The most important thing over the next two days is to find witnesses. It's not just because of fear that people don't want to come forward. Some assume others will come forward, or they hear people have been arrested and think the police will sort it out. But make yourself known. We just want people to come forward. Let us decide what information is important."The murdered youth's sister, the former EastEnders actor Brooke Kinsella, said she was grateful to those who had given police "significant" information, but urged more witnesses to come forward: "I wouldn't ask anyone to put their child in danger, but we've been assured by the police. Let's get these people off the streets. They could do it again," she said. Echoing her sentiments, her father, George Kinsella, said: "If Ben was there, he'd be up here to help."Macdonald said that forensic science teams were still looking at CCTV footage, which was a key area of the investigation. He could not confirm whether two knives found near the nightclub were linked to the stabbing. "When we do vast searches we often find knives," he said.Three suspects are currently being held at different police stations around London. Another has been bailed to return at a later date. Two 16-year-olds who were initially held and released were friends of the teenager and would face no further action, Macdonald said. Referring to Cherie Blair's comments to the Commons home affairs select committee on Tuesday that official figures underestimated the problem of knife crime among young people, Macdonald said the number of violent crimes was falling. "Younger children are using knives and getting stabbed," he said. "But violent crimes, murder, are all down."