A serial armed robber known as the Skullcracker is being questioned by police after his five days on the run from an open jail were brought to a dramatic end.Michael Wheatley, 55, spent the night in a police cell following his arrest in London on suspicion of holding up the same branch of a building society that he had reportedly raided in 2001.The fugitive prisoner was detained by armed officers in Tower Hamlets, east London, hours after allegedly robbing the Chelsea Building Society branch in Sunbury-on-Thames, Surrey. Witnesses described how armed plain-clothed officers forced Wheatley to the floor and shouted: "Armed police, get down."Angel Todorov, 22, told the Daily Mirror: "I looked out the window and there were police officers everywhere. There was a great deal of shouting and swearing."The dramatic arrest brought to an end a high-profile manhunt that started on Saturday evening when Wheatley was granted temporary release from an open prison on the Isle of Sheppey in Kent, only to board a high-speed train to London.Wheatley will continue to be questioned by Kent police officers on Thursday on suspicion of the armed raid, along with another man aged 53, and of being unlawfully at large.Meanwhile, the case will raise further questions for prison officials about why Wheatley was being held in an open prison on temporary release. The 55-year-old, who earned his nickname after pistol-whipping victims, including a 73-year-old woman, had gone on the run twice in the past and each time staged a series of violent robberies before being caught and returned to jail. He is serving 13 life sentences for armed raids on 13 banks and building societies.It was a 999 call from staff at the Chelsea Building Society in Sunbury-on-Thames at 10.20am that alerted detectives to the possibility that Wheatley had struck again.Jodie Aston, 30, who works in a hair and beauty salon near the building society, said police had told her they knew who the suspect was.She said: "They came in and said the man that robbed the bank was the man that escaped from the open prison and it happened at 10.20am."We heard nothing until someone came in and told us. It's quite scary to think we were so close. It could have been in here."Chloe Theobald, 26, a barmaid, said she was alerted to the incident when she was having lunch with her manager.She said: "The police said to my boss: 'We think it's the Skullcracker and he's been sighted in Sunbury.'"It's quite scary. It's not something that happens every day, that there's a man on the loose."Having been jailed in the 1980s for nine years for a post office raid, Wheatley failed to return to prison after a hospital visit in 1988. While at large, he carried out nine armed robberies before being caught.He was back in jail in 1989, looking at an extra 11-year stretch on top of his original nine. But three years later, having been allowed to attend an optician's appointment, he went on the run for a second time. Again he committed a string of robberies – this time eight raids. In 1993, having been recaptured, reconvicted, and re-jailed, he had added another seven years to the 20 he was already serving.In 2001, Wheatley was granted parole. In the subsequent 10 months, he made 13 armed raids on banks and building societies, from Southampton in Hampshire to Royston in Hertfordshire. His modus operandi was to target small branches, and he stole around £45,000.But the levels of violence escalated. Using an imitation firearm – a blank-firing semi-automatic pistol – he pistol-whipped a 73-year-old woman in one robbery. On more than one occasion, he grabbed a female customer and put the weapon to her head.When convicted and sentenced at the Old Bailey in 2002 to the 13 life sentences he is presently serving, he gave his occupation as "armed robber" to the custody officer.It was said in court that Wheatley returned to a life of crime to pay off debts he had run up during a relationship with a woman he met while in custody.He was ordered to serve a minimum of eight years before being considered for release.