A man who filmed himself attacking a 15-month-old repeatedly over six months has been jailed for 24 years for the boy's murder.Darren Newton, 32, from Earby in Lancashire, was found guilty of killing Charlie Hunt today after jurors at Manchester crown court had deliberated for 40 minutes; previously, they had been visibly shocked when shown the mobile-phone video footage taken by Newton of himself abusing the baby.Jailing Newton for life, with a minimum term of 24 years before parole, Mr Justice Stephen Irwin told him: "It was a series of repeated acts of cruelty for no obvious motive other than the wish to be cruel. Anyone who watches the clips of some of what you did – and I'm convinced you recorded only some of what you did – will genuinely struggle to understand why you came to do this."Part of Newton's "wickedness", said the judge, was the sympathetic and affectionate picture he presented of himself while secretly carrying out the abuse. And the judge said of his victim: "He was too young to tell his mother what you were doing, so she could prevent it." Irwin ordered the clips be preserved so the parole board can watch them before Newton is eventually considered for release.At the beginning of the trial last month, footage by Newton was shown to jurors, some of whom were visibly shocked as they placed their hands over their mouths. Court staff wiped tears from their eyes. The clips were the culmination of six months of abuse of the son of Newton's girlfriend, Laura Chapman, while she was out at work. Newton had denied murder and two charges of child cruelty, but admitted 12 other cruelty charges. The jury cleared him of one cruelty charge.The clips were given titles: "Crying, no toys in pen, ahh", "Squeezing toe in cot", "Two minutes of pain" and "Shivering no water", taken when the baby was naked in an empty bath. In one clip, "Happy Slap", a fortnight before the baby died, and a precursor, the prosecution alleged, to the fatal attack, Newton slaps him 12 times on the head as he screams in pain and cries.Newton is also seen forcing his finger into the baby's ear then twisting it as tears roll down his face and he tries to raise his hand in defence; the clip ends with the crying child being kicked on the floor.A fortnight later, in November last year, an ambulance was called when he became ill while Newton was babysitting; he died of head injuries an hour later in hospital, despite the intervention of medical staff.Doctors found suspicious bruising and discovered swelling and bleeding to the child's brain and his eyes damaged and bleeding.Prosecutor Dennis Watson QC told the jury that Newton "took pleasure from the fact that Charlie was suffering from cruel and wicked behaviour". He said that between June and November 2009 Newton carried out repeated acts of cruelty. "Not only did he do that, he filmed himself doing it on his mobile phone. The assaults and cruelty increased in seriousness over those months," Watson said.The court was told that Chapman, 30, met Newton in early 2009, after moving in next door to the house he shared with his parents. Chapman thought her life had "taken a turn for the better" as Newton had a job and she thought him a "quiet man, a caring man and a loving man". She had no knowledge of the attacks. In the months before his death the child had been taken to hospital with vomiting and "fits", but was discharged when he appeared "clingy" but soon back to his old self. A postmortem showed extensive bleeding to his retina and brain, swelling to the brain and deep bruising to the top of the head.There was also an area of "dead" brain tissue, and some of the injuries dated back to the period when Charlie had been taken to hospital suffering "fits".His sight was damaged with his optic nerve detached and he was almost blind at the time of his death.Many clips began with Charlie sitting quietly in his high chair or on a beanbag, happily gurgling to himself.Charlie's parents Laura Chapman, 30, and Richard Hunt, 44, said Newton was evil and a monster. "I hate him," Chapman said of Newton. "I hope he rots in hell. I was hysterical when I had to watch the videos – I was disgusted. It was extremely difficult to watch them, to see someone you love that much get hurt by someone that you trusted."They had to leave the courtroom when the clips were shown. At the time of her son's death, Chapman was being monitored by social services and her two other children were in care; initially she was arrested on suspicion of murder, but police soon realised that she was oblivious to the abuse.