Tesco, Wantage, a dog day Tuesday afternoon not a million years ago. A young woman sporting a red sash declaring "We want you to have five a day" approaches. She wants to interest me in a voucher for two-for-one on all root vegetables today. "Not much use to me, I'm afraid," I say, smiling, "I'm a professional shoplifter."She laughs. For the first time all day, an original reply.Sadly, however, I was not joking. I had become, for reasons that were all my fault, a shoplifter, a criminal, a taker of other people's property. I exited Tesco that day with a pint of semi-skimmed milk in my left pocket, two gammon steaks in my right and a nine-inch meaty feast pizza under my coat. The automatic door swung open for me and I was gone.I turned to shoplifting as a career option some years ago, during my two-year relationship with roulette. I had always had a compulsive streak, but roulette polished it up and brought it to the fore. I would gamble in two ways - at the bookmaker or on the internet. If it was a day for the bookmaker, I would have a cheap pint at 10am and be there for the opening of the doors at 10.15am. If I was in an extravagant mood, I might treat myself to a vended coffee at 70p a throw. And then I would find my machine, take my seat at the pleasuredome and play middle numbers - 13 to 24. I would feed note after note after note into the slot as the numbers fell on the cartoon screen. I just sat there while the outside world went about its business. It might as well have been the dress shop in The Time Machine that whirred beyond my vision. Inevitably, I almost always lost all the money and sidled away sweating and nauseous with about 12p in my pocket.I would steal a scotch egg on the walk to the car and drive home with a heavy heart and a minimum of petrol in my tank. That is what I remember most about that period: always having the little picture pump lit up in yellow, nagging and reminding. In the bookmaker, after I'd lost £350 in 15 minutes, some idiot would usually appear at my left shoulder and ask the inane question, "How's it going, mate?"The internet offered a cleaner, quicker and more sanitised kill. I would log on and transfer funds from my life to their profit column, watch a few silver balls spin, catch, hook and fall, and log off again. Needless to say, the silver ball never once escaped the wheel and jumped free, and I found myself stuck in the same vortex. One weekend I lost £13,000 in five hours of "playing". I can't remember a single moment of it. It was like committing suicide on a daily basis. I was on a low wage, working part-time with adults with autism and Down's syndrome, but in two years I managed to lose more than £50,000.It had never entered my mind to shoplift before. Even in sweetshops as a youngster, my sticky fingers had never reached out for a tube of Smarties. I paid my way in all establishments, checking my change, rather enjoying the mannered politeness of the British shop. My mum and dad didn't do a Larkin. They brought me up very well, to be a decent lad. My dad was a Methodist and an electrical engineer. They worked hard all their lives, moving the family up from a hard life to a comfortable middle-class existence. I was always taught to respect other people and their property, and I always did.I am not your typical shoplifter. I look respectable. I dress cleanly and smartly, wear glasses and am in my early 40s. I have a nice manner, a bald patch, a friendly voice. Occasionally, I would try to reason why I was doing it to myself, to my family. Maybe I was having a mid-life crisis. I was 42 and feeling overweight. Maybe I was missing my dad, who had died a few years before. Maybe I was missing a lost love, who had lately returned to her ex, leaving me adrift. Or maybe I was just bored.It started with cat food. The cat came in during my housewarming party four years ago and never left. He was my landlady's but for some reason he preferred my vibrations. I didn't mind the company but with money tight, it was the food I objected to. So I began taking two sachets of cat food every time I called in at Spar. Hidden away in my back pocket, it seemed like a victimless crime. The cat was chuffed, it saved me silver and I convinced myself that, since Spar marked its food staples so high, it wouldn't miss the income on the odd sachet of tuna in jelly. But it wasn't the odd sachet. It was lots and lots, and as the cat's appetite for food grew, so too did mine for shoplifting.Now a new and equally dangerous compulsion was riding side saddle with roulette. Soon all products and all shops were fair game. I would buy a 37p packet of Revels, engage the assistant in some good humoured chat about The X Factor, put threepence in the RSPCA tin and walk out with my pockets full.It became a feeding frenzy. Over those two years, I stole shoes, trainers, jeans, jackets, shirts, jumpers, socks, boxer shorts, candles, books, CDs, teddy bears, toys, games, watches, batteries, razors, beer, cider, spirits, champagne - and, of course, cat food. For two Christmases I bought not a single present, but handed over stolen goods wrapped in stolen paper, dreading anyone asking me for a receipt. Parallel lines. As the roulette got worse so did the shoplifting. Whatever cash I managed to get was gone on the wheel within hours. I couldn't afford clothes, the petrol to drive to Gamblers Anonymous, food, presents, treats, a social life or, of course, cat food. I felt like one of those characters in cartoons who run off cliffs but keep moving until they look down. And I felt so ashamed.O ddly, when I eventually did get nicked, I was innocent. I had been idly looking at CDs in Woolworths when a security guard noticed me. Before long I was in a police car en route to the station. It did put me off a bit, but it was the excruciating embarrassment that brought matters to a close. It is embarrassing when you can't go out for a meal with a new girlfriend or buy your ex-stepchild a birthday toy. I couldn't focus on anything, couldn't look anyone in the face. In two years I had lost all my money, quite a lot of other people's money, my self-respect and my sense of humour. I had become the sort of person I would normally avoid. That was one of the worst things, the self-loathing that built up with every stupid grab and stash. I wanted to feel normal, to regain my own trust, to like myself again.That was 18 months ago now. I no longer play roulette, but I can offer very little to the creditors I invited into my life over those two years of madness. They follow and bug me as I myself hounded a thousand shop aisles over those years. I have written to several of the shops to apologise. I will try to pay back some of what I took. It is going to be a long process.I still play roulette occasionally, but only with a scruffy fiver. Gamblers Anonymous helped a lot. Reading and listening to other addicts helped; I didn't feel so alone. I would never return to shoplifting in a million years. One day, before you take the final spin and jump off a multistorey, you have to stop looking at the roulette wheel, stop looking at where the shop camera is, and look at yourself. The picture I had of myself as a basically decent person before all this began has been shattered. Some of the pieces may be gone for ever.· Do you have a story about your life to tell? Email it to my.story@theguardian.com