Britain's most senior police chief will tonight call for a wide-ranging debate on the kind of force the country needs after the London bombings in July. The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, will use the annual Dimbleby lecture on BBC1 to argue that the terrorist attacks in the capital on July 7 have changed the nature of the policing challenge.Talking to the Guardian ahead of the lecture, Sir Ian warned that without a change in the way policing is debated, there is a danger of "drift" into further political controversies like last week's Commons row over 90-day detention powers. Controversial modern police strategies such as armed response, which resulted in the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes in July, are developing in a "totally private" environment dominated by the police themselves. "We need to come into a place where we can discuss these issues in reasonable, compassionate debate. They can't go on being private," he said.The police have moved from being traditionally a "very silent and separate" organisation to becoming a service that is at the heart of political controversies such as the De Menezes case and the 90-day detention row, "without an intervening period of public debate."In his lecture, Sir Ian is expected to say policing is hampered by the fact that "there is little dispassionate, thought-through public examination of just what it is we are here to do in the 21st century - to fight crime or to fight its causes, to help build stronger communities or to undertake zero tolerance." Britain needs to articulate what kind of police it wants. "The silence can no longer continue."The riots in France this month show the danger of disorder is never far away, the commissioner will add. "My central thesis is that the the British people need to decide what mechanisms they need to work out what kind of police force this should be, otherwise it will drift into doing it on its own, and that's not right."In his first public comments since the government's defeat last week on 90-day detention, Sir Ian told the Guardian that he had no regrets about the role he played in arguing for the enhanced powers. The Met gave MPs "professional advice"."That is what I did and would do again to any government of any stripe." Asked if he accepted parliament's decision to allow 28-day detention of terrorist subjects rather than 90 days, he said: "That's a question I can't answer except to say that the will of parliament is sovereign. Is one satisfied? That is the law they have produced - I am satisfied. Did I start from a different position? Well, of course I did."Sir Ian told the Guardian he was "frustrated" by the "lack of serious debate" in Britain on modern policing. He chided politicians and the media for limiting debate to police numbers and to calls for more bobbies on the beat. "The number of officers should not be the currency in which we debate and discuss policing," he said. The police service was "restless for reform". Sir Ian added: "I want to get on with it."In his interview, Sir Ian put down several markers for the kinds of reforms he would like to emerge from the debate at the centre of his lecture. Neighbourhood police teams are the key to changing policing. Police must stop the drift towards "the complex and the glamorous end" and reassert the value of patrolling and reassurance. There should be greater parliamentary debate of policing and the further education sector should be encouraged to provide courses in policing.Sir Ian also called for a cut in the number of police forces and warned that London's police at the time of the 2012 Olympics must have a unified structure, with the Met acquiring powers over transport and the City of London, which now have their own police forces.