A railway worker accused of raping girls and women aged between 10 and 52 yesterday told the jury trying him: "You can hang me, for all I care. I didn't do it."Antoni Imiela, 49, told jurors at Maidstone crown court that it would be difficult to convince them that he was not responsible for attacks to which he had been linked by DNA evidence. But he continued to deny raping eight victims across the south-east and kidnapping, indecently assaulting and attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl in Birmingham. Mr Imiela, from Appledore, Kent, also claimed he had been gay "most of my life". His wife, Christine, held her head in her hands as he described visiting male and female prostitutes and picking up other men in secret after their marriage in 1997. Wearing a grey suit and a polka-dot tie, Mr Imiela repeatedly broke down as he took the oath and gave evidence, reaching for tissues and clinging to the stand. At times his testimony was almost inaudible. Asked by his defence counsel, Rebecca Poulet QC, about a "significant event" in his family in 1968, he pointed at her and snapped: "You said you wouldn't mention that." Ms Poulet asked him whether he had had any particularly significant relationships with men. "I have had lots of significant relationships," he said, adding that the longest began in 1979 and lasted two years. He added: "I probably had a lot of girlfriends - friends, you know. There were probably three or four I have actually stuck with for a while." Asked about his wife's evidence that he had spent little time at home, he described his long commute and working hours and added: "Also, I went to meet people. I feel pretty stupid now. It was men ... [for] the usual gay things." He said that he had been "mad" to also visit female prostitutes. Mr Imiela insisted that he was not the man who attacked a 10-year-old girl in Ashford, Kent, despite the fact that his DNA matched that of her assailant. "I didn't rape her," he said, but admitted: "It would be difficult to convince you it wasn't me." Asked about DNA linking him to another rape - which according to experts had a one in 14 million chance of belonging to someone else - he replied: "Either I have got a pal working with me or they have made a mistake. Or it's the one in 14 million chance." The defendant also removed his jacket to show the tattoos on his forearms. Opening the defence case, Ms Poulet told jurors that none of the complainants had seen tattoos on their attacker's arms or had commented on their attacker having problems pronouncing "Rs", as Mr Imiela does. She also said they would hear information that would criticise the interpretation and analysis of DNA evidence; and details of further attacks "not dissimilar" to those in the case, which took place when Mr Imiela was known to be elsewhere. The case continues.