The man in the red jacket was not happy. He had just made his fifth appearance in court on a theft charge but the case had been adjourned until August 14 by a magistrate in an even redder jacket."Bollocks," he muttered under his breath as he left court two in the gaunt modern palace of justice in Stockport, Greater Manchester. The court had heard that a report had not yet come back from the forensic science laboratory where murder cases take precedence. The man made his disgruntlement clear to his solicitor. "If a witness failed to show up three times, the case would be dismissed," he complained. "He's got a point," said his solicitor as her client stomped off. "They tend to blame delays on the defence but usually it isn't us." The alleged offences were committed in March. With luck the trial might go ahead by the end of the year. Meanwhile solicitor Simon Morton nipped into a consultation room to reflect on home secretary David Blunkett's proposed reforms to speed up justice. "Whatever he says, whatever he tries to put in place, it will not work," he said. "You are dealing with people. The system depends on people sourcing information and passing it on. "Building more courts is not the solution. Nor is building more prisons or running night courts. If the police were given more money and more bodies the system would speed up." Yesterday Mr Morton was doing his best to defend 18 clients in three courts more or less simultaneously. One of his cases was dealt with in just two minutes and his client, led into the glass walled dock by a security guard with a blond pony tail, barely had time to take in the blue carpet, cream walls and maroon chairs, not to mention the chairman's magnificent earrings, before he was back in the cells. There had been five previous hearings on charges dating back to March, and involving GBH, theft, assault on police and possession of drugs. The defendant was remanded in custody until July 26 for medical evidence to be produced. Mr Morton conceded that part of the delay had been caused when his client failed to turn up for court and had to be brought in on a warrant. But he has been in custody since June 4. "It takes an inordinate amount of time to get medical evidence," he said. "The time between first appearance and committal for trial is normally eight weeks. But it is a very rare occurrence to get the medical evidence on the committal date. "The prosecution will normally apply for an adjournment of at least two weeks. They will come back with the paperwork. That will be the first time the defence has seen it and we will have to apply for an adjournment so that we can read it. That is then looked upon as a defence delay." But the vast majority of delays are caused because the police do not have the staff or resources to process paperwork quickly. Mr Morton has a client whose trial has just been put off for the third time because police officers were being trained in connection with the Commonwealth Games in Manchester. "My client's case is the most important thing in his life at the moment. He said to me, 'Shall I just plead guilty to get this over and done with because I can't cope with this delay?' "But the evidence against him is woefully weak and I think he will win the trial hands down." As he prepared for an afternoon of inter-court sprints, Mr Morton added: "The people who work in this court are passionate about what they do and what is done here is the best that can be done with the resources that exist."