Samantha Stobbart, the former girlfriend of Raoul Moat, has described how close she came to being killed by the gunman in the moments after he murdered her new partner.In her first interview since the attack, Stobbart said she survived because her left arm took the full force of shots from Moat's sawn-off weapon. "My arm ended up in front of me as a block," she told today's News of the World from her hospital bed.In a video on the paper's website she described the extent of her wounds, pointing at her scarred stomach where the shots entered her body after going through her arm. "The doctors said to me if my arm wasn't there I would have died. It took all the pressure and the force from hitting my organs," she said.During the interview, which was brokered by the publicist Max Clifford, Stobbart said she had warned her new boyfriend, Chris Brown, to stay away from her for his own safety after Moat had made threatening phone calls.Brown chose instead to try to protect Stobbart by going with her to a friend's house close to where her parents lived in Birtley, Gateshead. It was there that Brown was shot three times by Moat. "I warned him I want you to stay [at his house]," Stobbart told the paper. "Raoul doesn't know what you look like, he doesn't know where you live. Chris said, 'Why should I, Sam? I'm your boyfriend'."She described the moment Brown was shot outside the house and how she escaped inside as Moat reloaded his gun. "There was nothing I could do against a madman with a gun. I had to get back to the house to make sure my baby daughter Chanel was safe," she said.Then Moat shot her. "I saw the sparks flying off Raoul's gun as he shot me. Then I was on the floor with blood pumping out everywhere," Stobbart said.A day later Moat shot and blinded PC David Rathband as he continued to elude police capture. He shot himself last Saturday after a six-hour standoff in the village of Rothbury, Northumberland.During the manhunt Moat said he would target police officers before threatening the general public.Stobbart admitted she falsely told Moat that her new boyfriend was a policeman in an attempt to protect herself. She also described the violent abuse she suffered from Moat during their five-year relationship.She said Moat found out Brown was a karate instructor before shooting him. "On the night of the shooting Raoul phoned me to say he'd learned everything about Chris. He said, 'I know he isn't a cop. I know he does karate, he's an instructor.' "She added: "Raoul thought he was the hardest man on Earth. He thought no one could touch him because he was so big."She revealed that Moat sent her a "get well" card in hospital while he was on the run. Inside the gunman wrote: 'No joke intended. Get well soon, Raoul.'She said: "The card was sick but that is just the sort of thing he would do. He would want me to feel he was watching me."