The mother of Baby P and the two men convicted with her of causing his death have been told by an Old Bailey judge to expect "significant terms of imprisonment" when they are sentenced next month.The 27-year-old woman, her boyfriend, 32, and Jason Owen, 36, were convicted this week of causing or allowing the death of the 17-month-old boy, who suffered months of violent abuse including a broken spine.The mother and Owen were in court yesterday and the boyfriend appeared on video link from prison. They were told that whatever reports are submitted on their behalf, they face a substantial sentence.The three, who were all remanded in custody, have been cleared of murder. The offences for which they were convicted carry a maximum term of 14 years.The judge declined to lift a ban on naming the mother and her boyfriend, and on giving the full identity of Baby P. The judge also turned down applications for the lifting of contempt orders from media organisations including the Guardian. However, he agreed to allow photographs of the child to be published.Last night the boy's natural father, who also cannot be named for legal reasons, spoke of his anger at the three responsible for his son's death. "Those who systematically tortured P and killed him kept it a secret, not just from me but from all the people who visited the house up until his death," he said. "Even after he died, they lied to cover up their abuse."I loved him deeply. I remember how he used to run up to me ... or when he was in his pram he would bounce up and down until I took him out, giving me hugs and kisses ... I would like to thank the police for their efforts in obtaining the evidence to bring a conclusion to this case."I would also like to thank the social workers who have been involved since P's death. They have acted with professionalism and courtesy."Finally, I wish to thank my family and friends who have given me comfort and support during this traumatic time."In New York, the prime minister, Gordon Brown, reiterated the government's commitment to reviewing child protection procedures. "I am determined to do everything in my power to make sure that this does not happen again," he said. "Every family needs to know that their children are safe at night."The government refused yesterday to accept blame for failing to act on a whistleblower's warning of defects in the child protection service in Haringey that was sent to ministers several months before Baby P's death in August last year. Lawyers for Nevres Kemal, a social worker involved in an employment dispute with Haringey, wrote to three health ministers in February 2007, including Patricia Hewitt, then the health secretary. Kemal wanted Hewitt to intervene over alleged faults in the Haringey children's department.Whitehall departments and inspectorates took several hours yesterday to complete an audit of who did what with the letter. The Department of Health was quick to point out that it passed the correspondence to the education department, which had taken over responsibility for children's social services in 2003. A spokesman for Hewitt, who stepped down from the cabinet last year, said she never saw the letter personally but was satisfied her officials acted correctly.A Downing Street spokesman rejected Conservative accusations that Whitehall was engaging in "bureaucratic buck-passing". The spokesman said: "There is an appropriate body for complaints regarding social care. It is right that complaints should be directed to the Commission for Social Care Inspection [CSCI] to take appropriate action."This would have been correct in February last year, when the letter was written, but not two months later, when responsibility for regulating the social care of children passed to Ofsted, the schools inspectorate.Lawrence Davies, Kemal's lawyer, said the complaint "got pushed from pillar to post" between departments. Kemal subsequently received an injunction against speaking publicly about her claims and was unable to pursue the matter.The CSCI found it had dealt with the whistleblower's allegations before handing over responsibility to Ofsted.When the lawyer wrote to Hewitt he sent a copy to CSCI, whose spokesman said: "We raised these issues directly with Haringey at a formal meeting on 12 March 2007 and were satisfied that the council had dealt properly with the individual case raised by Ms Kemal."