Britain's biggest police force is to launch controversial new 'stop-and-search' patrols in the new year, despite concerns from many black leaders that they will lead to increased persecution of ethnic minorities.In a move set to be copied across the country, Lord Harris, the chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, confirmed that he has written to David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, saying that he wants the London force to be the first to start the patrols. The patrols were widely abandoned after the Macpherson report into the death of Stephen Lawrence accused the police of 'institutional racism'. Harris, who sent the letter on Friday, said that the new powers would come into force in 'months rather than years'. Police will be given pocket computers to record every time they stop a suspect, detailing ethnic background and the reason for the stop. Each person will be given an electronic receipt with a reference number, so that they can complain if they feel they have been unfairly treated. 'The new system will increase confidence in the way the police operate on the streets,' Harris said. 'It will ensure that stop-and-search is used properly, rather than erratically, and it means that we can monitor and review performance of the patrols.' Harris, who has overall responsibility for the 'strategic direction' of the Metropolitan Police, is believed to have the support of both Sir John Stevens, the Commissioner, and Ian Blair, his deputy. Once the Met starts using the new system, it is likely to be introduced across the country within 12 months. A black person is six times more likely to be stopped by police than a white person. Although the number of people stopped by police has fallen by up to 40 per cent since 1999, the number of black people stopped rose by 4 per cent in the past 12 months. The number of whites stopped has fallen by 18 per cent. In 1999 the Macpherson report said that, if stop-and-search was to be effective and fair, there had to be a way of monitoring its performance. It proposed that police officers fill in a form every time they stopped someone, an idea that was condemned by police unions as too cumbersome and bureaucratic. Police complained that they had stopped using the power since Macpherson, because they were afraid of being labelled racist. A rapid rise in street crime was also linked to a drop in the use of the power. Harris said that electronic record-keeping would mean little extra work for police officers, while still remaining within the spirit of the Macpherson recommendations. 'The technology exists, at a price,' he said. 'We will be asking the Home Office about how we can fund that.' Blunkett, who signalled his backing for new stop-and-search patrols earlier this year, will give the Met the green light. 'If the chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority and the Commissioner want to introduce [it] tomorrow, then I will say, go ahead,' he said. 'I want to phase it in across the country and I want to find the least bureaucratic way, the least intrusive way, of doing it.' The move is likely to split members of the black community. Trevor Phillips, the chairman of the Greater London Assembly, said that he backed the plans as a way of fighting street crime as long as it was introduced sensitively. But Michael Eboda, editor of the black newspaper New Nation, said it would lead to increased tension. 'The main problem is the randomness of it,' he said. 'Just stopping people on little more than a hunch will perpetuate stereotypes.'