Just about every other industry in Sheffield took a battering during the Thatcher years, and some disappeared from South Yorkshire altogether. The oldest of them, however, survived recession and has thrived in the new millennium.It is the bane of Steve Hicks' life. "Prostitution", roars Superintendent Hicks, his hands clasped tightly behind the back of his head, "is one of our major problems." In its way, he says, it is more of a dilemma than drugs and violent crime (though prostitution is often linked to both), and a higher priority than burglaries or vandalism. Mr Hicks is not sure how many prostitutes there are in Sheffield. "It's historic. Don't ask me why, but we have always had them. Street girls, call girls, massage parlours, escort agencies, you name it ... " But he knows business is booming because of the number of kerb crawlers that appear on the street every evening, the number of used condoms they leave behind, and the complaints he receives about both. The police have tried all sorts of ways of controlling the industry. Some have been radical; they formally supported proposals to zone off pockets of the city, but the idea infuriated people living in the chosen areas.  Nimby brigade "The nimby [not in my back yard] brigade had a point," said another officer. "But if we had cordoned off certain sites for prostitution, at least that would have been one way of hiding it away and controlling it." Arresting and charging prostitutes, the police found, is a dispiriting and ultimately pointless exercise; to pay the fines, women need to work much harder, so they go straight back on the streets. Putting up a CCTV camera in one red light district, Devonshire Green, was supposed to deter prostitutes from working there. Instead, it encouraged them. This is, after all, Yorkshire Ripper country, and Devonshire Green, with its poor street lighting and industrial decay, is not the safest place for anyone to be walking around after dark. Knowing they were being watched gave the prostitutes extra security, so they huddled together in view of the camera. Mr Hicks argues that prostitution is a political and social problem. He says it needs "multi-agency involvement" - police speak for "I can't sort this out on my own." He knows too that rows over tackling vice are significant because they are symbolic. They go to the heart of his strategy for policing Sheffield. Clarence Swindell, chairman of the police authority, thinks he knows the solution to cutting crime. "I am 68 years old and I have seen a lot of changes," said Mr Swindell, a no-nonsense type who lives in Rotherham. "And nobody will ever persuade me that the answer is not more uniformed officers on the street. People behave themselves when they see a police officer on patrol. It is a simple as that." Mr Hicks does not agree. He is in charge of one of the busiest city centres in the country. Between 150,000 and 200,000 people commute to Sheffield, and the central area a resident population of 100,000. Most of them would be surprised to learn the number of officers Mr Hicks has on standby to protect them. "Fourteen, tops. That's on a good day, and we don't have many. Sometimes we have fewer than that, but I am not going to give you exact figures because it might give people the wrong idea. We don't want to cause any anxiety." Mr Hicks does not have the manpower to have police officers roaming the streets in a reactive way, waiting to respond if something happens. He favours schemes which shift or at least share responsibility, like using security guards rather than "beat bobbies" to patrol neighbourhoods. He sees the planned redevelopment of Sheffield city centre as a fantastic opportunity to "design out crime". Recently, he approved a pilot scheme to "hire out" police officers to Sheffield University, which wanted a uniformed presence on campus because students felt threatened by the number of prostitutes, pimps and kerb crawlers. The university paid for an officer to patrol Neverthorpe, in the north west of the city, between 5pm and 9pm every day for a fortnight. Mr Hicks persuaded the university to allow the officer to include in his walkabout a housing estate in Edward Street, where residents had complained about prostitutes. "You could argue this means you don't have policing for all, just for those that can afford it. But this is the reality of policing today. The scheme made common sense to me, and the people who live in the Edward Street flats got a patrol." Mr Hicks has been promised extra uniformed officers, which should bring the overall strength on day shifts to 20. But this will not make any difference to the way the city is policed. To a certain extent, he is a victim of Sheffield's success. Crime rates have declined since the early 1990s, and the most recent figures confirm it is one of the safest cities in the country.The overall number of crimes committed in the city last year, 740, is still less than the 1997-98 figures, and the detection rate, 45%, is the highest in the force. Murders are infrequent. What violent crime there is tends to be drug related. Last month, a crack cocaine dealer, John Copeland, was jailed for 13 years for attacking elderly people in their homes, including a 94-year-old widower, Fred Revill. Another of his victims was an 82-year-old woman, Hannah Morgan. Copeland, 23, broke her hip. The police also have to deal with occasional shootings. Six weeks ago in Burngreave Road, three men jumped into the back of a car and shot a man in the passenger seat. The victim lost a lot of blood and suffered severe damage to his spleen, but survived. "I would say that was probably drug-related too," an officer said. "Incidents like that are few and far between. When I go to training courses and I speak to officers from London or Manchester, I realise we don't have anything like the problems they have." Perversely, drug culture has benefited the city, which has some of the trendiest nightclubs in the country. "The dance crowd are very different from the pub crowd," said Detective Inspector Colin Fisher. "The clubbers come to Sheffield for a weekend, and they don't stop for 48 hours. They don't cause any trouble. They are not interested in fighting or getting drunk. Twenty years ago, it was different. The culture was pub, curry house, and a brawl in the street."  Drug deaths Drug-related deaths in Sheffield are nearly always from heroin overdose, and often involve prostitutes. In recent months, Sheffield has reorganised its community policing teams to tackle vandalism and burglary. The impact was immediate. Officers work in fortnightly rotation; one week, they walk the beat, the second they join together to target hotspots like the Wyburn estate, often working undercover, on the trail of known offenders. In Gleadless, another problem area, crime went into freefall when the police set up a "swat team", made up of a sergeant, Dave Annakin, and three constables. They worked in conjuction with but were quite separate from the beat officers. During the team's spell in the Arbourthorne estate, crime fell by 28%. The trick was to identify the ringleaders, then arrest them in front of their friends. "When it was made clear they were not untouchable, things quietened down," Sgt Annakin said. "Every estate in Sheffield wants one of these teams now," said a city councillor, Robert Harpham. "But there aren't the resources to keep them permanently."