As romantic gestures go, it takes some beating. Gordon Thomson, of Plymouth, asked his girlfriend - of two months; they were obviously at the besotted stage - to lie on the floor. He then positioned a brick under her leg and jumped on the limb with both feet. It duly broke, with a loud crack. They intended to claim that a wall had fallen on her, and apply for £100,000 in damages from Plymouth City Council. Unfortunately, the incident was filmed on a mobile phone and Thomson is now in court, having admitted charges of unlawfully and maliciously causing grievous bodily harm with intent.Thomson and his girlfriend are unusual in the lengths to which they will go for cash, but they are not alone. In August, a telephone engineer called David Russell shot himself in the chest with a nailgun. He said a gang of youths had riddled him with seven two-inch nails (one came within 1cm of his diaphragm), and claimed criminal injuries compensation. Some years ago it was reported that dozens of young Northern Irish men were voluntarily submitting to kneecapping in order to receive up to £25,000 compensation. Some had drug debts; one was rumoured to have done it for a holiday to Spain.In Accidentally on Purpose: The Making of a Personal Injury Underworld in America, Ken Dornstein notes that criminal gangs have been known to fill cars with "dummies" (often poor Hispanic immigrants) and deliberately stage accidents. If the dummies survive, they file personal injury claims; all proceeds go to the criminals. He also discovered that among the distinctions of a small town called Vernon, Florida, was that around 50 of its citizens had arranged to have their own limbs amputated, mostly after shooting and farming "accidents", causing it to become known as Nub City. "In the hierarchy of nubbiedom," noted an article in the New Yorker, "the supremely rewarding self-sacrifice was the loss of a right leg and a left arm, because, so the theory went, 'afterward, you could still write your name and still have a foot to press the gas pedal of your Cadillac.'" If you're going to take this route to riches, you might as well do it in style.