Almost two-thirds of police forces in England and Wales, including the four biggest, will miss the ethnic minority recruitment targets they were set nine years ago following the Macpherson inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence.Sir William Macpherson's public inquiry into the 1993 murder found that police errors had helped Lawrence's killers to escape justice and concluded that institutional racism was in part to blame for police failures. It also urged police forces to recruit far more ethnic minority officers so that the police would more closely resemble the communities they served. The government gave them 10 years to meet the target - that each of the 43 forces in England and Wales should have the same percentage of ethnic minority officers as in the populations they served. But the Metropolitan police has conceded it will miss its target, as will the three next biggest forces - Greater Manchester, West Midlands and West Yorkshire. But 16 mostly smaller forces with ethnic minority populations of just a few per cent have or will have met their target by the deadline.Scotland Yard deputy assistant commissioner Steve Roberts accepted that the Met would miss its targets by a considerable margin, but said meeting them had never been a possibility. The Met was supposed to have 25% of its officers from ethnic minorities by next year. The current total is 8%. He said the last two years had seen 25% of new recruits coming from ethnic minorities, but it would be "some years yet" before the force looked like the population of the capital."The Home Office has accepted the difficulty ... of meeting the target," he said.Despite their failure, police forces believe great progress has been made in tackling internal racism. This week sees the 15th anniversary of Lawrence's murder in London by a racist gang who are still free. In the wake of the Macpherson report, the Met vowed to stamp out racism in the ranks, and now it and the Association of Chief Police Officers say they are no longer institutionally racist. Last night black officers disputed the claim.Roberts said: "I don't think we are [institutionally racist] any longer. I think we have transformed ourselves. It's almost an unrecognisable organisation from what it was nine or 10 years ago."In his 1999 report, Macpherson defined institutional racism as being "the collective failure of an organisation to provide an appropriate and professional service to people because of their colour, culture or ethnic origin. It can be seen or detected in processes, attitudes and behaviour which amount to discrimination through unwitting prejudice, ignorance, thoughtlessness, and racist stereotyping which disadvantaged minority ethnic people."Ali Dizaei, chair of the National Black Police Association, said: "We are far less institutionally racist than 10 years ago, but I caution against complacency. A complete bill of health is still within our grasp but we are not there yet, I'm afraid."Alfred John, chair of the Met BPA, said: "We have seen too many cases that confirm that racism and institutional racism are still apparent in the organisation."An Acpo spokesman said the police service was not institutionally racist. "No, and the label did more harm than good. Since that time we have implemented steps and overhauled the processes that are used in murder inquiries. Anthony Walker [the black teenager killed with an axe on Merseyside in 2005] is a case example where the investigation demonstrated that processes have changed and the police had moved a long way forward since the case of Stephen Lawrence."Murder investigationThe father of Stephen Lawrence has said it could take years for a forensics breakthrough to lead to some of his son's killers being charged. Neville Lawrence was speaking on the eve of the 15th anniversary of his son's racist murder. Scotland Yard detectives are continuing to investigate a potential forensic science breakthrough which could tie some of original five suspects to the murder scene in south-east London. Lawrence, who now lives in Jamaica, said: "They said it could take years because they want to make absolutely sure of their case this time."