On the surface, at least, the North Peckham estate where Damilola Taylor was murdered has changed dramatically in the two years since his death.Gone are most of grim 1960s concrete blocks whose gloomy raised walkways and blind alleys made the estate a favourite for muggers. In their place are neat streets and houses, many with small gardens, most clearly cared for, part of a £280m regeneration. The local authority flags up a raft of schemes it has introduced to improve Peckham, and the police claim they are making inroads into crime.But do residents feel safer? Many yesterday were unconvinced that much had improved or that police were doing enough. Sylvia Jones, 52, who was strolling to the library which Damilola visited shortly before his death, said: "The area certainly looks a lot more pleasant. But when night falls it is just about as bad as it ever was. There are gangs, there are drug dealers, there are muggers. And I don't see many police around here." She said people had little faith in the police or the courts. "It's not the fault of the individual officers. The police do not have enough resources to patrol properly and when they do catch criminals, especially the very young ones, the courts do not hit them hard enough. "They come up with these reports but will they change anything? I don't think so." A former neighbour of one of the boys who was cleared in April of Damilola's murder, said: "It makes me laugh when I hear about these reports. We all know what the problem is - there are not enough police and the courts are not tough enough on the criminals" Local politicians continue to campaign for more police resources. Councillor Ian Wingfield, leader of the Labour group on Southwark council, said: "After Damilola died the number of police on the streets did go up. But we believe we are now back down to the level we had before his death." Mr Wingfield and his colleagues are calling for an extra 1,000 police officers and support staff in the borough. He said the reports published yesterday showed that a more thorough investigation - backed by more resources - should have been undertaken. "There is still a great deal of concern in the area about the death of Damilola. There are still open sores," said Mr Wingfield. "People are fearful that those responsible are still at liberty and worry that the same sort of thing could happen again." After Damilola was stabbed and the issue of muggings of young people by other youngsters became a hot political issue, many parents were terrified to let their children walk home by themselves. Two years on, the local school gates are still busy with parents at leaving time. Maurice, 35, who was picking up his nine-year-old son from one of the local schools, said: "There is no way you would let a child walk home in this area by themselves. When I was a boy that was possible. It's not now. "If somebody had been found guilty of killing Damilola, perhaps we could have drawn a line under it and moved on but that hasn't happened. Reports on what went wrong don't help. They won't bring him back, will they?" The police have improved their links with schools, and outreach workers try to dissuade young people from joining gangs. Facilities for young people in and around the North Peckham estate have improved greatly. A youth centre near the stairwell where Damilola bled to death has been refurbished in his honour and boasts a sports hall, all-weather football pitch and cafe. Alan, 17, and two friends were to be found yesterday wasting time near the library. He said: "I do sometimes go to the community centre but who wants to do that every night? It's much better to hang out with your mates. We have a laugh, we cause a bit of trouble, what's the problem?"