A teenager who shot a young father to death because he felt the victim showed him "disrespect" was jailed for life yesterday.Bradley Tucker, 18, was sent to prison for a minimum of 25 years, having been convicted in March of the murder of Peter Woodhams, 22, in Canning Town, east London, last August.The case attracted national attention after it emerged that Mr Woodhams had earlier been the victim of a knife attack and sought police assistance after being menaced and attacked by local youths.Eight months before his death, Mr Woodhams was stabbed in the neck and had his face slashed by a group of youths because he confronted them about stones being thrown at his new Ford Focus car.Amid the furore that followed the murder, Scotland Yard apologised to the victim's family. The issue is also the subject of an investigation by the Independent Police Complaints Commission.The Recorder of London, Peter Beaumont, said Tucker would spend a minimum of 25 years behind bars, adding: "You were not provoked in any legal or real sense to do what you did. You perceived disrespect. You feared loss of face in a challenge that you perceived from the man you killed, a challenge to the standing you felt you had in the eyes of people whose respect you sought."To meet that challenge you acquired a gun, a loaded gun. You followed a man to his home in broad daylight and in front of his home you shot him repeatedly."Tucker, a painter and decorator who was known to police before the murder, was silent as he was led away by three security officers. Family members, however, shouted "We love you Brad" and applauded briefly.Mr Woodhams' partner, Jane Bowden, the mother of the couple's three-year-old son, Sam, smiled and grasped the hand of a family member as sentence was passed.In a victim impact statement read to the court in March, she said the "vicious and callous" murder had devastated her family. "Peter and I had everything to live for - we were a young family getting started in life, setting out on our future together."She said she could not feel any compassion for Tucker, who is the product of a broken home and a chaotic background. "One minute Peter was our future and within seconds, he is our past," she said. "Parents without a son, siblings without a brother, a woman without a partner and, more than anything, a son without a father."Outside court yesterday, Mr Woodhams' father, also Peter, said the family was pleased by the sentence. "I would like to say we had justice today, although nothing is ever going to bring our son back," he said.Detective Inspector Phil Rickells declined to comment on claims the murder could have been prevented, because the IPCC investigation is continuing.