The internet industry must take more responsibility for protecting young people from the "dark side" of digital content relating to abuse, violence and suicide, according to a committee of MPs.The investigation recommended the establishment of a self-regulatory body to create better online safeguards to protect children from being exposed to unsuitable material. The body would police websites, adjudicate on complaints and could help crack down on piracy and illegal file-sharing in Britain.The culture, media and sport committee report, on harmful content on the internet and video games, said that leaving individual companies to introduce their own measures to protect users had resulted in an "unsatisfactory piecemeal approach which lacks consistency and transparency".The report praised efforts of some companies, such as Microsoft and MySpace, but criticised others, notably Google-owned video sharing giant YouTube.The committee chairman, John Whittingdale, criticised YouTube for not going far enough with proactive measures, beyond a pledge to take down material when it is "flagged" up by users. "We had a lively debate with YouTube [who said they have] millions of users who act as regulators," he said. "They understandably say they can't look at all the material uploaded."Whittingdale cited one specific example of "concern" involving a video of what appeared to be a gang rape that was viewed around 600 times. He said YouTube was made aware of the content by a user but it was not taken down until a second warning came through.The report recommends a "proactive review of content" as standard practice for sites hosting user-generated content. The idea would be to introduce technological tools to "quarantine" material which "potentially violates terms and conditions of use until ... reviewed by staff".A YouTube spokesperson responded to the criticism by setting out the site's methods for policing content, insisting: "We don't want this sort of content on our site and our system is very efficient at removing it. Currently we review around half all flagged material within half an hour, and the majority within an hour. We make sure that if a video is removed copies cannot be reuploaded to the site."The report recommended a host of measures including improving the "shocking" industry-accepted standard takedown time of 24 hours for the removal of child abuse content.Whittingdale said a key concern was that many young people did not realise when they are putting information on social networking websites such as Bebo and Facebook it was being "made available to the world".The report recommends a default setting for social networking website user profiles with heavily restricted access that would require a "deliberate decision" to display personal information. The increasingly worrying role of the influence of suicide websites was also highlighted in the report. It said that it could be possible to look at blocking such websites on a voluntary basis, in the same way that ISPs already do for child sex abuse websites with the Internet Watch Foundation."The report also agrees that parents need to take on a greater responsibility to protect their children. The report also recommended introducing the rating system used by the British Board of Film Classification for computer games. Games such as Grand Theft Auto and Manhunt are hugely popular with young gamers but have come in for heavy criticism for containing graphic, violent content.The government is launching a consultation today, looking at a number of potential systems for classifying video games.