Three police stations a month have closed since Tony Blair came to power, the Liberal Democrats revealed today.New figures the party has obtained from the Home Office show that 227 stations shut since 1997 in England and Wales, with Essex alone losing 59.The statistics will provide ammunition for a high-profile speech on crime the Conservative leader, Michael Howard, is planning to give tomorrow in Middlesbrough.However, the numbers also show that closures ran at an even higher rate when Mr Howard was home secretary in the early 1990s: stations were shutting at the rate of one a week when the Tory leader presided over the Home Office during the four years to May 1997.In all, 536 stations have been lost since 1992 as officers and resources have been concentrated in larger stations, often in town centres, according to the previously secret official study. Since 1997, Essex has been hardest hit, with 59 closures, followed by Gloucestershire, with 23, and south Wales, with 22. The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, who made the figures public, said the government was letting people down. "Many of these closures have been in the name of efficiency and cost cutting," he said. "Thousands of people no longer have a permanent police presence in their town or neighbourhood. "Community policing is vital for cutting crime and maintaining public confidence. At a time when the government claims the public should have a bigger say in local policing, people are increasingly unable to go down to the station and talk to an officer in person. "Police stations are a precious resource and the government has let people down by failing to protect them." The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said: "People want to see police out on the street and they also want to know there is a local police station they can go to."A spokesman for the Home Office responded: "Police station numbers have reduced in the past 10 years to take out inadequate and little utilised premises in favour of modern facilities. These are located in areas of greatest policing pressure."Mr Howard's speech tomorrow is timed to try to wrestle the initiative on crime back from the government, which announced extra billions of pounds for law and order and more than 20,000 more community support officers in last month's spending review. The Tory leader is expected to blame Britain's crime rate in part on a lack of personal responsibility and an absence of father figures. He is due to say: "Many people now believe that they are no longer wholly responsible for their actions; it is someone else's or something else's fault: the environment, the government, society."Children, especially boys, benefit hugely from a male influence. Of course, this isn't always possible because a large number of men simply abandon their responsibilities as fathers."But there are many fathers in Britain today who do want to play their part yet can't get access to their children."The Tories have already pledged to change the law so there is a legal presumption that both parents have an equal right to be involved in their children's upbringing.