A rattled David Blunkett was reprimanded by the Speaker last night for releasing partial and misleading figures on street crime.During a Commons debate, Simon Hughes, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, produced a letter in which the independent statistics commissioner, Sir John Kingman, suggested to the home secretary that his release of statistics about a pilot scheme to reduce street crime appeared to be selective. "We were concerned that you had felt forced by ill-based comments to publish a set of interim figures on street crime in what could be seen as a selective fashion _ there should be no suspicion that government is picking and choosing, publishing the good news and not the bad," the letter said. It relates to events last August, when it was reported that a pledge by Tony Blair to have street crime "under control" in 10 key urban areas by September had not been met. Then, Mr Blunkett responded by releasing interim figures contradicting the rumours. Last night a Home Office spokeswoman defended the decision. "People were getting unverified figures from different police forces. "The interim figures were published to put accurate figures in to the public domain," she said. But in the Commons yesterday Mr Blunkett was forced to withdraw after trying to turn the attack on to Iain Duncan Smith, accusing the Tory leader of lying when he repeated inaccurate press reports about soaring crime. Under pressure from the Speaker, Michael Martin, the home secretary toned down the charge to the suggestion that he had "misunderstood and misinterpreted" street crime statistics. Tories were jubilant as their Home Office spokesman, Oliver Letwin, shed his normally emollient style and launched into the kind of sustained offensive against government policies rarely seen since Labour came to power. He jibed that Mr Blunkett was both illiberal and ineffective, and accused ministers of "muddle and confusion". Mr Letwin went on: "The fact is, we have a crisis of police demoralisation, a crisis of confidence in the criminal justice system, a crisis of old people too frightened to leave their homes. "We have a crisis of streets and neighbourhoods that are in the control of gun gangs, pimps and drug dealers. We have a crisis that amounts to a retreat of civilisation and the loss of control of the streets for the honest citizen." Mr Blunkett admitted that last week's confusion over burglary sentences was potentially damaging, but he rejected claims the government had lost control: "There are more police, more community support officers, more street wardens, more prison places, more investment in probation." He pointed to the youth justice board and efforts to bring about a "change in culture and climate that involves parents and families, involves a different atmosphere in schools, involves hope for young people." He went on to call on the opposition to stop sneering and instead help to make sure a clear message went out that criminals would be punished. "The message is clear: commit violent, dangerous, sexual offences, be a repeat offender, cause havoc, fail to avoid reoffending, and you will go to prison."The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Wednesday January 15, 2003In our report an elision created some confusion. In fact, Mr Blunkett was reprimanded for accusing the Tory leader of lying. The Speaker did not comment on criticism, made by the statistics commissioner, of figures released by the Home Office.