A new set of phone digits will enter the nation's memory bank this year, with the government finally agreeing to set up a national non-emergency line to the police.The Home Office will announce a pilot scheme this month aimed at relieving the 999 service from non-urgent demands, which make up 70% of calls. The pilot will be the first move towards a possible 222 or 333 system for contacting police promptly but outside actual emergencies. Reformers have argued for 10 years that the current situation - almost complete ignorance of "normal" police numbers plus over-use of 999 - forms a double brake on curbing crime. Instances include reports of minor road accidents and traffic blockage, or calls about suspicious behaviour. Home Office research in 2001 found that 5,800,000 of the 8,400,000 calls made via 999 to the police did not need an emergency response. Internal monitoring has also found a high level of public dissatisfaction over trying to contact the police. Endorsing the idea of a non-emergency line in October, Home Office minister John Denham said: "Members of the public are rightly frustrated at the difficulties they experience when trying to contact the police on non-urgent matters." The pilot is expected to involve up to 20 areas across Britain, rationalising local initiatives which have seen nine forces set up their own lines in the last three years. A spokesman for the Home Office said: "We expect an announcement in the new year, involving a number of forces which will all share the same number." The local schemes currently use different codes. The pilot will almost certainly use the 0845 prefix followed by seven "easy to remember" digits, while talks continue about the practicality of a simpler code like 222. The spokesman said that technical difficulties made a three-digit number impossible for the moment, largely because of the range and complexity of phone numbers now in use. The idea of a national non-emergency line for the police has surfaced in "bright idea" columns and suggestion boxes for years, and was recommended by the audit commission as long ago as 1996. But the then Conservative government was cautious in spite of backbench MPs' pleas that ministers would be remembered for making the idea reality. The main concern - that police would be distracted by even more calls to the new service - has been eased by the local experiments. A spokeswoman for West Yorkshire police said yesterday that their non-emergency number, 0845 6060606, which is advertised on police vehicles, leaflets and posters, had been well used. Assistant chief constable Ian Daines of neighbouring South Yorkshire police said that a single national number would add greatly to the proven local benefits. He said: "If we had, say, 222, people wouldn't have to think where they were. The number could be promoted nationally and if you were on holiday in the south you would be able to report a non-emergency incident in the same way and to the same number as if you were at home."