Two 16-year-olds were convicted yesterday of killing a boy from the traveller community in what the prosecution had described as a case "with racial overtones".During the trial at Chester crown court, the jury heard that Johnny Delaney, 15, from Liverpool, died in a confrontation after the teenagers called him a "Gypsy bastard". But after they were cleared of murder and found guilty of manslaughter, Mr Justice Richards said that, having heard the evidence, he did not believe the attack was racially motivated. "I make it clear that I do not regard this as a racially motivated killing, as was opened by the prosecution," he said before adjourning sentence for three weeks. Outside the court, Johnny's father Patrick reacted angrily to the verdict and the judge's comments. "There is no justice here. They were kicking my son like a football. Are they going to let this happen to another Gypsy? Every travelling person is going to be upset by that verdict. As far as we're concerned it was a racist attack. "I have lost my son for life. This has left a big hole in our family. He was a very polite lad who never did anything wrong. He didn't deserve this." After the trial, Detective Chief Inspector Jed Manley, of Cheshire police, said he still considered the killing had been racially motivated. "It was recorded as a racially motivated incident on the first day of the inquiry under the definition given by the Lawrence inquiry because of certain comments made at the scene of the incident." Twelve police officers wearing body armour were in court for the verdicts. The court heard that one of the defendants had stamped on Johnny Delaney's head with both feet and said he deserved it because "he was only a fucking Gypsy". Christopher Vospa QC, prosecuting, had said that Johnny died after a clash with a group of five youths on playing fields in Ellesmere Port, Cheshire, last May. He had left his home on a travellers' site in Liverpool to meet friends and family on an unofficial site in Ellesmere Port. He was attacked as he returned there after going shopping with four friends. The group ran away but Johnny, who had abandoned school to work with his father in the asphalt business, tripped and fell. Mr Vospa claimed the defendants had then kicked Delaney in the head as he lay on the ground, causing brain injuries from which he died at the Countess of Chester hospital in Chester. A girl who saw the attack said that if she had to rate the kicks out of 10 for force, she would have given them a nine. During the trial the defendants tried to blame each other for the fatal blows. One said that he heard Johnny groan as he lay on the ground. His accomplice had then walked back and stamped on him with both feet. Johnny Delaney was born in Derby, where the family lived in a house. But then, missing the company of other travellers, they moved on to a cara van site in Wrexham, north Wales. The Delaneys stayed in Wrexham for four years and then moved to Liverpool in December 2001. At around the age of 11, Johnny - one of three boys and four girls - stopped going to school and started working with his father, helping laying asphalt and paving. His favourite recreation was swimming, though he also liked hunting for rabbits. Last year, the Delaneys went to the Roman Catholic holy shrine at Lourdes in France. Johnny had planned to go too, but did not have a passport. Although he applied it went missing in the post three times. It turned up the day after he died. According to his family, Johnny had faced prejudice before, and hated being picked on for being a Gypsy. Before the trial, a family member told the Guardian: "People pick on us because of where we come from. "It's like being a racist against a black person. You can't blame everyone for what someone else has done. It's all true hatred. But if you cut one another you will bleed and we all bleed the same stuff. It's not Johnny's fault that he was a Gypsy."