One of the teenage boys who kicked a 20-year-old gap year student to death because she was a goth has won a reduction in the minimum sentence he must serve before he is eligible for parole.Ryan Herbert, 16, of Bacup, Lancashire, was sentenced to life, with a minimum term of 16 years and three months for kicking and stamping Sophie Lancaster to death in a park in August 2007 as she tried to protect her boyfriend, who was being beaten by five youths. Herbert had pleaded guilty to murder before the trial at Preston crown court earlier this year and yesterday received a nine-month reduction in his tariff by the appeal court in London as the judges ruled not enough consideration had been given for his guilty plea.The lord chief justice, Lord Judge, described the attack as "an appalling crime." Sitting with two other judges, he reduced Herbert's minimum term to 15 years and six months.Brendan Harris, 16, who denied murder but was convicted by a jury, failed to have his 18-year minimum term reduced. Harris and Herbert turned on Lancaster as she tried to stop them and three other youths from attacking her 21-year-old boyfriend Robert Maltby, an art student.Lancaster died 13 days after the attack in Stubbylee Park, Bacup. Maltby was left in a coma, and has suffered devastating physical and mental problems.Herbert and Harris repeatedly stamped on and kicked their victims. Three other youths involved in the attack on Maltby had their sentence appeals rejected. Harris, Herbert, brothers Joseph and Danny Hulme, and Daniel Mallett admitted grievous bodily harm over the attack on Maltby. The Hulme brothers are each serving a minimum of five years and 10 months. Mallett, 18, is serving four years and four months.Sentencing them in April, Judge Anthony Russell QC, had described the attacks as "feral thuggery". Dismissing the appeals of four of them, the lord chief justice said the appeal of Herbert was being allowed to a "very limited extent". He said the five teenagers "savagely and mercilessly attacked and beat unconscious" Maltby. "However, with remarkable courage Miss Lancaster rushed to give whatever assistance to him she could," he said.The appeal court considered the victim impact statement from Lancaster's mother, Sylvia Lancaster, that spoke in "deeply moving terms" of the horror of seeing her daughter in hospital, and of her dying in her arms when her life support machine was switched off. She said yesterday: "I'm not happy he's [Herbert] got nine months off his sentence, but it could have been a lot worse. I'm relieved the others have all been dismissed."