Retail Loss Prevention: Criminal justice system cannot cope with the volume of theftRetail theft cost £4.4bn in 2010, according to this year's Global Retail Theft Barometer. Consumers as well as retailers bear the cost, which is estimated at £180 a year for each UK household. As a result, and against a backdrop of stretched police resources, retailers are increasingly having to take responsibility themselves to redress this balance and recover some of this cost via the civil courts – a process known as civil recovery.It is surprising, then, that with legal aid due to be cut, Citizens Advice is to use public funds to defend those caught shoplifting, even where the individual has admitted guilt to the offence and been given a police caution. So why has Citizens Advice taken issue with the process of civil recovery?In our view, it is misguided for a number of reasons.Retailers take a holistic view of shoplifting and, where appropriate, take civil action against those stealing rather than expect honest customers to pay for the cost of crime. The facts indicate that the criminal justice system cannot deal with the volume of theft. Civil recovery was adopted by retailers as a commonsense approach to help tackle crime and, crucially, it acts as an effective deterrent, with a reoffending rate of less than 3%.The process is also mindful of some of the realities of petty crime in the UK. While policing theft costs the same, whether the value of the theft is high or low, our clients (retailers seeking compensation) seek a lower proportion of their losses in low-value thefts. Moreover, one could argue that from an entirely legal perspective, the motives and personal circumstances of an individual are irrelevant both to the liability and amount of damages to which retailers are entitled. However, retailers adhere to the Statement of Operating Principles for Civil Recovery in the UK, to protect the vulnerable in our society.Critically, Citizens Advice has a social responsibility to ensure its advice is helpful and legally accurate, so it is concerning that the organisation is advising individuals to ignore retailers' legitimate claims, contrary to civil law principles.We welcome a healthy debate on the issue of retail theft. However, in our view, the Citizens Advice report is seriously flawed. At the moment, civil recovery is effectively "the only tool in the box" for the retail industry.Jackie Lambert is managing director of Retail Loss PreventionCitizens Advice: Extracting money by hollow threats of court action is wrongOver the past decade, more than 600,000 people have received letters demanding money as "compensation" for their alleged shoplifting or employee theft – and threatening county court action (and escalating costs) if the sum demanded is not paid promptly. The letters are sent by "civil recovery" agents acting for high street retailers such as Asda, Boots, Debenhams, Tesco and TK Maxx.Citizens Advice does not condone crime of any kind, and does not underestimate its cost, which, as the British Retail Consortium notes, is "met by honest customers who end up paying more". But the ends of deterring crime or recovering its cost do not justify any means. If retailers, dissatisfied with police action against shoplifting, are to take matters into their own hands, they must do so using means that are legitimate and transparently fair.In two out of three Citizens Advice-handled cases, the value of the goods involved is less than £20. One in four of the cases involve teenagers, while others have serious mental health problems. And, in many cases, the alleged theft is strongly denied, and appears to have been simply an honest mistake, the result of confusion when using a self-service checkout, or overzealousness by security staff. In two out of three cases, no police action is taken.But among the more than 10,000 Citizens Advice-handled cases, there is one common feature: if the sum demanded is not paid, the threatened court action does not materialise. And the most prolific agent – Retail Loss Prevention (RLP) – has conceded that it has never successfully litigated a contested court claim in respect of an unpaid demand. This, together with formal legal advice that there is no obvious legal authority for most such demands, suggests that the practice of threatened civil recovery relies on fear and/or shame, and ignorance of the law, for its effectiveness.Exploiting ignorance of the law and extracting money by means of hollow threats of court action is clearly a lucrative business – RLP keeps 40% of all money paid – but it is not fair. Citizens Advice is surprised that household-name retailers are prepared to risk their reputation in this way, and calls on them to cease such practice.This would not cause significant detriment to the retail sector. For the total amount "recovered" for the retailers each year seems unlikely to be more than £16m – that is, less than 0.4% of the £4.4bn cost of retail crime. Indeed, the principal beneficiaries of the practice would appear to be the agents, who collectively profit by millions of pounds yet have no obvious interest in seeing the reduction in retail crime sought by public policy.In the meantime, anyone worried about a civil recovery demand, and especially anyone issued with a county court claim in respect of an unpaid demand, should contact their local Citizens Advice Bureau. To ensure that the law is thoroughly tested and clarified, we will ensure that any such defendant is legally represented in court.Richard Dunstan is a social policy officer at Citizens Advice and the author of the report Uncivil Recovery