Having been sent off in the 48th minute in a match against Crystal Palace, the Manchester United striker Eric Cantona launched himself at Matthew Simmons before the pair traded punches. In his match report for the Guardian, David Lacey said Cantona went ‘beserk.’ He also questioned whether the talented Frenchman’s days in English football were numbered.  Guardian, 26 January 1995. Photograph: GuardianThe unusual sight of a footballer attacking a fan - and in such spectacular fashion - led to global interest. Realising the seriousness of the situation, the Old Trafford club decided to ban Cantona for the rest of the season and fine him £20,000. The Football Association later extended Cantona’s ban following a disciplinary hearing. Cantona’s angry response also affected his club’s share price as £3m was wiped off its value, said the Financial Times.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Simmons allegedly said to Cantona: “You’re a fucking French bastard. You don’t deserve to be on a pitch. Fuck off back to France.” Simmons’ version, as told in court, was: “I joined in the jeering and only shouted: ‘Off. Off. Off. Go and have an early shower” (Daily Mirror, 1 May 1996)Not everyone blamed Cantona though. His supporters were quick to point out that his victim had been convicted in 1992 for attempted armed robbery using violence. Speaking to the Observer, Simmons later protested that he was unfairly judged because of his criminal past.As for Cantona, he tried to keep a low profile in the wake of the kung-fu assault, knowing he was about to face charges and a trial. Having escaped to Guadeloupe to avoid the media spotlight, Cantona was tracked down by an ITN reporter. Aggrieved at having his privacy invaded, he reportedly threatened to kill the journalist.   Guardian, 22 February 1995. Photograph: GuardianTwo months after his much publicised kick on Matthew Simmons, Cantona finally had his day at Croydon Magistrates Court. In a packed court room, the Frenchman, probably not expecting a harsh sentence, was given a two week jail term for assaulting the Crystal Palace fan. The verdict drew gasps from the room. Cantona and his legal team looked dazed. Within three hours, however, a judge had granted bail pending an appeal.Cantona’s accuser, Simmons, was later sentenced at Croydon Magistrates Court, receiving a £500 fine for using threatening behaviour and banned from football stadiums for a year. On hearing this, Simmons lunged at the prosecution lawyer, briefly getting him in a headlock. After Simmons was restrained, he was given seven days in prison for contempt of court. Paul Ince, Cantona’s team mate, was found not guilty at his trial, following charges that he used threatening behaviour against another fan as he intervened after Cantona’s kick.  Guardian, 25 May 1995. Photograph: GuardianThe trials of Simmons and Ince were largely overshadowed by Cantona’s appeal against his two week prison sentence. At Croydon Crown Court, Cantona had his jail term reduced to 150 hours community service. The kung-fu kick saga then took a surreal turn as the enigmatic Cantona delivered a bizarre one line statement to the waiting press about seagulls and trawlers, then walked out, leaving them to decipher his cryptic words.  Guardian,1 April 1995. Photograph: Guardian