In the last 10 years we have heard a lot of talk about "getting tough" on crime, but little on the second part of the Labour mantra: the causes. So Tuesday's law and order policy review sounds like welcome news, if long overdue.Relentless pursuit of tabloid headlines to prove to the people that Labour can out tough all the other parties on punitive responses to crime may have sounded convincing but the weight of evidence showing that prison is an expensive way of making people worse couldn't be ignored because it doesn't prevent more victims. Putting thousands of offenders in the same place where all they learn is how to be better criminals is counterintuitive. There's lots of loud voices panicking about young people in gangs but the biggest gangs are locked up in Her Majesty's prisons.The acknowledgement that prison has become the ultimate social service is also positive. We've read time and time again that prisons are bursting at the seams with addicts and disturbed and damaged people so it's encouraging to see there is now a strategy for more provision outside jail walls for mentally ill offenders and more drug treatment. However, these elements seem to be long term plans in the strategy and what we need is action now.I've been working with and on behalf of what is often termed "the underclass" for the last 20 years, the homeless, the mentally ill, drug and alcohol addicts and offenders. One label merges into another; if you have one you are likely to have a number of the others.These people used to fill our streets and mental institutions, now they inhabit our prisons en masse. Prisons have become the dumping ground for society's problem people and it's the wrong place for them. Prison staff can't deal with them so their problems just get worse, making it more likely they will cause us law abiding citizens more problems when they come out.The women's prison population is a prime example of this, these women are not bad and dangerous, just vulnerable and damaged. Three quarters have addiction and mental health issues, half have been victims of domestic violence and a third were abused as children.Punishing these people is counter productive and it's a relief this government seems to have found the courage to admit this and put in place the beginnings of a strategy to reduce the number men and women who are suffering from addiction or ill health in our custodial system.The government's report is more considered, words like rehabilitation feature strongly, as does support for more investment in community service giving the public a greater say in what work is done. A graph picturing the strategy of the last decade characterises it as focussed on tough sentencing. The approach to the next decade is about stabilising sentencing, more rehabilitation and early intervention. It sounds like good stuff from a government that is prepared to be straight about how to create a safer society. But will words translate into action? And why didn't they go that bit further and commit to a reduction in the prison population? As usual there's good in this but it still doesn't go far enough.