The body of the missing nursery nurse Amanda Edwards was discovered on a building site yesterday, and detectives confirmed that the man who had been arrested in connection with her disappearance was also dead.Officers had been searching for Ms Edwards, 21, from Purton, Wiltshire, since she disappeared eight days ago. Detective Chief Superintendent Paul Howlett, who is leading the investigation, said last night that her parents were "understandably devastated" by the discovery of the body. "It is with deep regret that I am announcing the fact that we have found the body here in Malmesbury. The circumstances lead us to believe we have found Amanda's body." Ian Cortis, a 48-year-old plasterer who had worked at the building site and was known to Ms Edwards, was arrested on Monday on suspicion of kidnapping her. He was released without charge late on Thursday night. Detectives had not ruled him out of their investigation and were still appealing for witnesses to come forward when his body was found at a house in Calne, Wiltshire. The police said his death was not thought to be suspicious. Last night the Wiltshire Constabulary voluntarily referred his death to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC). The IPCC said commissioner Ian Bynoe would oversee the investigation. Mr Bynoe said: "I will ensure the investigation into the events surrounding his death is carried out in a robust and open manner. I will also ensure that the family are kept regularly informed of progress in the investigation." Yesterday morning the police concentrated their search on a small area of the building site. A no-fly zone was put in place and members of the Major Crime and Missing Persons Bureau in Hampshire, who played an important role in the Soham murder investigation, and a sniffer dog from South Yorkshire police, were brought in.Shortly after 1pm the dog was reported to have started barking, giving rise to speculation that a body had been found. Ms Edwards, described by her mother Beverley as "quiet and reserved", disappeared after dropping her 19-year-old boyfriend at his home in Calne. She was spotted on CCTV on the same morning, and other footage showed a lone woman driving a vehicle - believed to belong to Ms Edwards - towards Swindon just before noon. Her parents became concerned about their youngest daughter after she failed to meet a friend later in the day. They notified the police when her car was found abandoned in a Swindon car park near where Mr Cortis lived. On Thursday officers put the vehicle in the same bay in an attempt to jog the memories of potential witnesses so they could piece together Ms Edwards' last movements. Earlier the police had revealed that she was being treated for depression at the time she disappeared, having suffered an illness after returning from a holiday in January, but this was not linked to her disappearance. Last night the police would not say whether they were seeking anyone else in connection with her death. Mr Howlett said the inquiry would remain active until the results of a postmortem examination, which is due to be carried out today, were available. Ms Edwards' body was removed from the building site last night.