And here it comes again. It's senseless, it's depressing, and we all feel powerless to stop it. No, not knife crime; not quite. I mean a far more pervasive social evil; people talking about knife crime, apportioning the blame. It's Thatcher's fault, bark the lefties, because she made everyone selfish and materialistic. No, it's that Roy Jenkins and his damned permissive society, retort the Telegraph readers. Actually, a contrarian declares, it all started when King Arthur took the sword out of the stone, and made blades fashionable. And so on.But it's not quite that simple. Excuse the apparent digression, but when I was a teenager, I sometimes went on CND marches. Now, now, it was the early 1980s, and there was always the chance you might bump into someone cool, like one of Echo & the Bunnymen, or maybe Arthur Scargill. And the big demos were often livened up by a light aircraft, flying above the marchers and trailing a banner reading "CND Idiots: The Kremlin Says Thanks!" or something similar. Every now and then, defence secretary Michael Heseltine (who was almost as big as Echo & the Bunnymen in those days, and his hair was cooler) would don a flak jacket and patronise us.This was the prevailing orthodoxy of the day. If Britain unilaterally gave up its nukes, we'd be at the mercy of any other power that retained them. So if everyone had them, nobody would want to use them. Mutually assured destruction they called it; the nuclear deterrent. If we were going to disarm, it would be on a multilateral, not unilateral basis. And that's still the default position now. Anyway, knives. Those plucky journalists who stop wagging fingers and actually talk to ver kidz seem to hear a consistent explanation for the sheer number of knives in the pockets of our young. Everyone else has got one, so if I ain't got one, I'll get robbed or shanked or both. I don't really want to use a knife, but I'll carry one just in case. It's our old friend deterrence, with Dean, Dilpesh and Duwayne taking the place of Washington and Moscow. But look what happened when CND badges stopped being trendy. Israel has nuclear weapons but refuses to say so, which suggests they've rather missed the point of deterrence. India's got them, so Pakistan had to get a few; c'mon, it's only fair. And once the likes of North Korea and Iran bought into the concept, some of the most fervent supporters of multilateralism felt obliged to redefine exactly how multi they wanted the lateralism to be. Anyone fancy enforcing a non-proliferation treaty on the streets of Peckham?So the current spate of knife crime is all the fault of, ooh, let's say ... Heseltine. And that bloody flak jacket.