A gang has stolen at least £20m from a bank in Belfast in one of Britain's biggest ever heists, comparable in scale to the Brinks Mat raid and the great train robbery.Police confirmed today that a "highly organised" gang had robbed the headquarters of Northern Bank - the province's largest retail bank - in Belfast city centre last night.On Sunday, the night before the raid, members of the gang had entered the homes of two senior Northern Bank employees and taken their families hostage. The gang then forced the employees to go to work as usual while they kept their families hostage. Then, when the bank closed for the night yesterday, a vehicle pulled up and millions of pounds were stolen from the vaults.Assistant Chief Constable Sam Kinkaid said the hostages had been held for around 24 hours and had endured a "great trauma". He declined to give details about their condition but said they did not have life threatening injuries. Mr Kinkaid, who is leading a huge police inquiry, said criminals linked to paramilitaries had committed similar robberies in Northern Ireland in the past but that it was too early to say if this robbery had a paramilitary connection.He told reporters: "This is not a lucky crime, this is a well organised crime."The bank was today carrying out an audit of the amount taken, which Mr Kinkaid said would be confirmed in the coming days. Some reports said the total could reach £30m.He said the immediate focus had been on recovering forensic evidence from the bank and that this had delayed calculation of what had been lost.However, he said: "On the information that I have received to date from interviewing witnesses and people who have been present at the bank early this morning, I have been informed that the sum is quite considerable and may be in excess of £20m." The gang seized a number of houses belonging to bank officials at around 10pm on Sunday. Mr Kinkaid said one of the houses the gang targeted was in Belfast and the other in Downpatrick, Co Down.He said the senior bank employees were coerced into going to work and then forced to help the robbers to remove the money between 6pm and 8.30pm last night. The alarm at the bank building in Donegall Square West was raised shortly before midnight. Mr Kinkaid, who leads the Police Service of Northern Ireland's new crime operations department, which specialises in investigating serious and organised crime, appealed for information. "There are people in the community here in Northern Ireland who would be aware of details of this crime and we ask them please to contact the police," he said. Ian Paisley Jr, the Democratic Unionist party assembly member for North Antrim, said the robbery was a further sign a mafia-style culture was operating in Northern Ireland.Mr Paisley, who sits on the province's 19-member policing board, said: "This indicates the kind of mafia society we live in ... it is illustrated by the fact that a criminal gang can carry out such an audacious raid [as] this." Northern Bank was established in 1824 as the Northern Banking Partnership. Today, it has a network of 95 branches and 11 business banking centres. It was taken over by the National Australia Bank in the late 1980s, and was last week sold to Denmark's largest banking chain, Danske Bank, which bought Northern Bank and the National Irish Bank in an all-cash £967m deal.In the great train robbery of 1963, some £2.6m in banknotes - worth about £40m today - were stolen from a train en route from Glasgow to London. Two decades later, in 1983, another gang stole 6,800 bars of gold, worth £26m, from the Brinks Mat high security bullion warehouse near Heathrow airport.