More than a third of police forces have failed to hire a single extra black or Asian officer in the year since the Stephen Lawrence inquiry report demanded a rapid increase in recruitment, a Guardian survey reveals today.The number of ethnic minority officers has fallen in nine of the 43 forces in England and Wales and seven others have recorded no increase. The Guardian questionnaire, marking the first anniversary of Sir William Macpherson's landmark report, asked forces for the progress they have made on basic measures seen as the first stage in eradicating racism in the ranks. With the exception of the Metropolitan police, forces have managed to recruit on average fewer than two officers each in the past year. In total, 260 extra Asian and black officers were taken on across England and Wales last year out of 5,000 new recruits, despite demands from the home secretary, Jack Straw, that the police become "the champions of a multi-cultural society". Only the Met managed to recruit significant numbers of black and Asian officers - 184 - more than twice the number taken on by all the other forces. In the Met, the focus of Sir William's criticism, 4% of officers are now black or Asian, compared with a fifth of the population in London. The force still pledged to hire 5,000 more ethnic minority officers by 2009. The Guardian survey also shows that almost two-thirds of forces have failed to meet Sir William's demand that they train staff fully in racial awareness and cultural diversity, with only 17 complying. The training is either still in development or only partially implemented in the others. And almost half the forces (20) still do not have tests to measure whether their officers have racist attitudes, as recommended by her majesty's inspector of constabulary. Superintendent Peter Williams, national secretary of the police superintendents' association, said more time was needed. "The recruitment process can take 18 months. Training programmes have to be devised correctly before they are undertaken. A truer picture will emerge 12 months from now." Tony Burden, vice-president of the association of chief police officers, added: "There are some excellent initiatives under way." However, the national black police association said the Guardian's findings were independent evidence that even basic changes had not taken place in the past 12 months. Its chairman, Paul Wilson, said: "The measures are bread and butter ones that should have been progressed immediately after the inquiry... They haven't even got to the first hurdle. Though there's a lot of frenetic activity now, there's a hope within forces that this issue will go away, that the agenda will change. There's no evidence that things have improved for black officers." The managing director of the Ionann, a company appointed by the home office to train forces in community and race relations, told the Guardian an overwhelming number of officers had a problem with race and some "don't see black people as individuals". Dianna Yach said the firm had worked with eight forces to assses attitudes to Asians and Afro-Caribbeans. "Two-thirds of police officers have a problem addressing the race issue, either because of ignorance, confusion or being difficult. I suppose, based on the feedback we've had, one third are very resistant to change. "They don't think there is a problem, they can't see the connection between race equality and service delivery. A third are confused and resentful, but not actively resistant. A third are switched on and are willing to learn." Yesterday Mr Straw unveiled a progress report which showed that half of Sir William's 70 recommendations had already been implemented. He said the inquiry had had a cathartic effect on race relations and had opened up the eyes of white people to what it felt like to be black or Asian. "What's important is that the police embrace this agenda for change."