Text of David Cameron's speech to the Annual Convention of the Youth Justice Board in Cardiff today.This is the original text and may differ from the speech as delivered. Very many thanks for inviting me to address the convention.This is a subject close to my heart.A few months ago I gave a speech about youth crime to the Centre for Social Justice.I talked about hoodies - and Tony Blair made a joke about it in his party conference speech.With that cheap joke he gave up on one of the best things he ever said: tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime. I want to spell out today, in terms no one can misunderstand, what I said in that speech.I believe in holding individuals responsible for their actions, and punishing them when they break the law.But let's be clear.We can punish criminals all we like......we can punish young offenders all we like......but if we don't tackle the causes of crime we'll never have a safer society.What I said was that we mustn't demonise young people.If all we have to say to those kids is that you're feral, that you deserve an Asbo, that you should be in custody, we will simply be reacting to youth crime instead of reducing it. Ultimately it's not the state which is going to stop crime.It's society. All the state can do is forbid bad behaviour - and punish it. It is society that has the power to encourage good behaviour - and reward it. Currently, policy on youth crime might be described as anti-anti-social. Rather than the double negative, let's have a single positive. Let's have a pro-social policy. Let's ask ourselves what we can do to give young people hope, to improve training, to strengthen families, to tackle addiction, to encourage good behaviour.Let's recognise that we're all in this together.That fighting youth crime is a social responsibility, not just a state responsibility. When my party was last in Government, the main task was to roll back the frontiers of the state. If we get into Government again, I want us to have a different mission.To roll forward the frontiers of society. Let me explain what I mean.Social responsibilityThe life lived by thousands of young people in our big towns and cities is a disgrace to all of us.I've had enough of the debate about personal responsibility versus the causes of crime. I am a Conservative. So of course I believe you're responsible for your own actions.But I also believe - as a Conservative - that society has a responsibility too. And it's one we're failing to fulfil.Look at the facts about the young criminals who end up in Young Offenders Institutions.[1]85 per cent of them have mental health issues.Half of them spent time in care or under social service supervision as a child. Over half of them are addicted to drugs or alcohol.40 per cent of boys suffered violence at home.A third of girls suffered sexual abuse.So to those who simply say, crime is the fault of the criminal and that's all there is to it, I say: tell it to a young offender. Tell a 16 year old boy, abandoned by his father, neglected by his mother, on drugs, dyslexic, hyper-active... tell that boy it's all his own fault when he ends up in Feltham. See if that works.The gapI'm not going to beat my breast and say we're all guilty.But the fact is that crime is a social phenomenon and it has its social causes.And here I want to point something out about our society which isn't directly responsible for crime - but it says a lot about society's attitudes to young people.What's happening is that the gap between childhood and adulthood is growing. We're making childhood - the time of innocence - end earlier and earlier.We advertise products to pre-teens as if they were fully sexualised adults.We encourage them to listen to music that glorifies violence. We collude in the natural childish wish to grow up as quickly as possible. And yet at the same time, we're pushing adulthood - real adulthood - further and further away.We deny young people the responsibility that being grown-up actually means. There's little incentive to save.If you're a man, there's less social pressure to look after the children you produce, or to get married.Owning your own home is a distant if not impossible prospect. And so for many young people, childhood is over by age 12 - if not before.But adulthood doesn't begin till age 25 - if not later.What happens in between?Well, you know the answer to that.You deal with it every day. Justice and loveSo what should we do?In my last speech on this subject I said that justice means setting boundaries. If you step over those boundaries you should suffer painful consequences.That's the primary job of the youth justice system, to police the territory beyond the pale.This needs to be done with consistency, speed and rigour.But I also said that to build a safe and civilised society for the long-term, we have to look at what goes on inside the boundaries, within the pale. We have to show a lot more love.By that I don't mean sentimental, childish love which sees no wrong in anyone.I mean tough love - love that values people, and therefore demands high standards from them. Love that respects people - and so expects a lot from them. And that's the job of society.My feeling is that we're not doing either of these things right.Our youth justice system isn't working properly at punishing and deterring crime. And our society isn't giving enough support to young people to stop them becoming criminals. Justice and love.The two sides of our approach to crime.Let me look at them in turn.JusticeOf course the youth justice system isn't only concerned with justice in its pure sense.Youth justice workers don't go into the profession because they simply want to enforce the law. You do it because you care - you want to help the young people who are getting into trouble with the police. But the primary function of the youth justice system is to prevent and deter crime, and punish wrongdoers. Last week we heard just how well the system is working.Not well at all. The YJB reported that the number of young offenders in custody is at record levels. Here in Wales, the young offenders' institutions are full. Because of overcrowding, dozens of children are being locked up more than 50 miles from home - which is against the rules, but happens nevertheless.Overcrowding leads directly to self-harm and suicide. As Rod Morgan has said, the system is close to "meltdown". And what happens to these youngsters when they get out of custody?80% of them reoffend.Now I'm not one of those who think custody can never do any good.It can - not least in keeping offenders off the streets for a while.But custody has another function.Rehabilitation.And if it's not doing that, it isn't working. That's why I want to see real change in the system - especially the YOIs. Clearly there is a need for more capacity. That's partly because there are some people who need to be in secure accommodation, and I want us to catch and convict more of them.But the need for more capacity is for another reason too.So that we can ease overcrowding and get on with education, training, counselling.The fact is, custody should represent an opportunity for changing lives for the better.But at the moment, too often, it's just a social dustbin. I want to see far more innovation - ...and yes, that means the opening up of offender management services to both public and private competition. But just as important, I'd like to see all YOIs, and prisons for that matter, whether privately or publicly run, open themselves up to voluntary organisations.Training, education, therapy... it's often a charity or social enterprise which has the expertise, the time, the compassion for these things. Community sentencesBut I don't think that even the best custodial regime is always the right option.I also want to see more rigorous and challenging community punishments. Now I know that every politician since the dawn of time has said we need more rigorous community punishments. But the fact is, the public's perception is still that community sentences are a soft option. A constituent of mine was badly beaten up in a pub one night, by a prolific offender with a record of violence. The criminal got 40 hours' community work.As the victim's father put it to me: "40 hours' community work - just an opportunity to smoke dope with the other criminals who've escaped jail".Now I know that's an unfair description of community work. But if so many people hold this perception, we have a problem, and we need to deal with it.The fact is, this government has thrown every sort of criminal justice measure it can at the problem of youth crime.Asbos. Home detention curfews.Fixed penalty notices. They've created a new criminal offence for every day they've been in office.29 criminal justice acts of parliament.Massive reorganisations of prisons, of probation, of the courts.No one can say they haven't tried. But the result of all this effort and energy? An epidemic of low-level disorder and disrespect. The fact is, youth justice in this country isn't working. That's partly sheer incompetence.They're so busy talking tough, passing new laws, they don't have time to consider the question of implementation.The Criminal Justice Act of 2000 was a classic example.Six years later, 110 of its provisions are not in force.39 have been, or are being, repealed altogether.17 were repealed before they ever came into force.And as the Youth Justice Board report today, the majority of Asbos are handed out without any involvement from the relevant Youth Offending Team.That's two of Labour's principal initiatives on youth justice - Asbos and YOTs - not connected to each other.But even if we had a justice system that did its job properly, we wouldn't have solved our crime problem. We need to try another approach.Not abandoning the principle of justice.As I've said, I want to see longer sentences for prolific offenders and more beds in YOIs.I want to see tougher, more challenging community sentences. But I don't think that criminal justice has all the answers.If it did, we would surely have cracked youth crime by now. What we really need is what I said in that speech about hoodies.Not a more powerful state - but a more powerful society. If justice is the responsibility of the system, care, help, love - they are the responsibility of society.Of course that includes local government and other public agencies. I support the work that councils are doing to prevent crime, working in partnership with the police, Drug Action Teams, and of course Youth Offending Teams. Here in Cardiff, the Youth Inclusion Project, which I visited this morning, is a great example of local services working together. But ultimately there's only so much that public agencies can do.That's why I want us, as a society, to take more responsibility for our young people.Families need to be stronger.That means more support, especially with childcare.And it means more encouragement for parents to stay together - that means support for marriage.But if we're going to tackle youth crime, we have to look beyond the family. We have to look to society itself - to the associations and institutions which transmit cultural expectations......and which could do the job of government so much better if we only let them.Residential rehab places for young addicts.Opportunities for mental health workers to get involved earlier. Organisations giving young people an alternative to crime. On Monday I launched the Young Adult Trust. It's a new charity which represents the idea of social responsibility in the most tangible form.It brings young people together - from all classes and backgrounds - and gives them a sense of purpose, optimism and belonging.They work together on community projects - but the emphasis is personal development.Helping young people cross that large and growing gap between the end of childhood and the start of adulthood.Helping them develop into the adults they want to be, and that society needs them to be.That's the sort of initiative I want to see taking place across Britain. I'm delighted to hear about Valleys Kids, a charity working with disadvantaged children in the Rhondda Valley.It offers an open door to young people who are excluded from school, in trouble with the police, getting into drinking and drugs, petty crime and vandalism. ConclusionOrganisations like that do an amazing job.And it's a job which government simply can't do - no matter how well meaning.They make society more attractive than the street. And it's this that explains the big difference between my party and Labour when it comes to fighting crime.When Tony Blair said he wanted to be tough on the causes of crime, I'm sure he meant it at the time. But even when Labour get it right, they get it wrong. Their method of tackling the causes of crime is the same method they use for everything - the power of central government. I want to do things differently. Their approach is national. Our approach is local.Theirs is about economics. Ours is about relationships.Theirs is structural. Ours is human.In a word - they trust the state. We trust society. And when I say that we trust society, I mean that we have expectations of society too.We're always telling young people to be more responsible.Society needs to be more responsible as well.