The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 8 May 2009 In the article below, underneath the sub-heading 'DNA detection', we said that the human genome comprised about 3m DNA letters. That should have been 3bn. For 27 years the mother of a young barmaid had believed her daughter's rapist and killer was behind bars. In the last few days it has become clear to Mary Sedotti that the man who strangled her daughter in the early hours of a December morning 30 years ago has never been caught.In a week's time Sean Hodgson, 58, the mentally ill misfit who was convicted of killing 22-year-old Teresa de Simone, is likely to walk free from the court of appeal in London after DNA tests that were not available at the time of his conviction conclusively proved he was not the killer.Currently being held in the hospital wing of HMP Albany, his 27 years behind bars make him one of the longest serving inmates in the British penal system. Only the likes of police killer Harry Roberts have served longer.Hodgson, also known as Robert, was convicted in 1982 of killing the young barmaid, whose body was found semi-naked in her car outside a pub in Southampton. She had been throttled with her gold crucifix necklace. Hodgson had confessed to a priest that he was the killer, and admitted the offence on several other occasions to detectives, but no assessment was made of his mental state or his apparent obsession with confessing to crimes he had not committed.At his trial Hodgson retracted his admissions, pleaded not guilty and told the jury he was a pathological liar. The jury did not believe him, and he was convicted on a unanimous verdict. It is only in the last 11 months that a new legal team has picked up his case and realised they were staring at a miscarriage of justice.The Criminal Cases Review Commission is now asking the Crown Prosecution Service to consider reviewing scores of other similar murders where DNA is now available and the defendant is still alive.Simone's mother Mary Sedotti, who still lives in Southampton, has been kept informed of all the developments in the case. She told the Guardian: "Of course I would like to see this reinvestigated. It is very difficult for me." The case against Hodgson began to unravel last March, when a new legal team led by solicitor Julian Young took it on. "We looked at it and thought we were on to something," Young said. "We went to see him in prison and he continually denied he had killed her. He has repeatedly denied he was the killer throughout his time in prison."Young's team wrote to the Crown Prosecution Service and Hampshire police last July to ask for the evidence in the case to be reviewed. The police agreed to resubmit all the evidence to the Forensic Science Service and in two batches of results - in late December and January of this year - it was established that the DNA found on De Simone's body was not Hodgson's. No match was made with any other suspect. The papers were sent to the CCRC and in two days the case was referred to the court of appeal where it will be heard on 18 March."It is not in our interests to see someone whose conviction is unsafe in prison," a prosecution source said. "We supported Mr Hodgson's defence team and moved very quickly on this."De Simone, a part-time barmaid, had been working in the Tom Tackle pub on the night of 4 December 1979 before going on to a nearby disco with her friend Jenni Savage.After dancing for a few hours Savage drove her friend back to her car in the pub car park at about 12.30am. They sat chatting for a while before Savage waved goodbye to De Simone as she walked away to her car. She was never seen alive again.When De Simone's mother woke the next morning she realised her daughter was not in her room and thought something must be wrong. Her husband, the young woman's stepfather, drove round to the pub and spotted the car but did not take a closer look. It was only later when the landlord arrived to open up that De Simone's partly naked body was discovered.Two days after the murder detectives interviewed Hodgson, who was hovering around the case claiming that he had information about the killing. A year later Hodgson, who was by then in prison for stealing a car, called guards to his cell and said he needed to see a priest."I have got to see someone because the scene keeps coming back to me in my cell," he told the prison guards. Father Frank Moran was called to HMP Wandsworth to speak to Hodgson, who claimed he had strangled and raped De Simone and wanted people to know what he had done.Detectives interviewed Hodgson and he confessed again. At the time it was not usual practice for mental assessments to be made of a prisoner. Hodgson had also made a series of other confessions to hundreds of burglaries and rapes.By the time he came to trial in 1982 Hodgson denied murder. He told the jury he had made it all up."I would like to tell the members of the jury why I cannot go into the witness box," he said. "Firstly, it is because I am a pathological liar. Secondly, I did not kill Teresa de Simone. Thirdly, every time I have been nicked by the law and that has been many times, I have made false confessions to crimes I did not commit."The only other evidence against him was blood analysis which showed the killer had blood group A or AB - Hodgson and a third of the male population were in that category. Appeal court judges will hear the case next Wednesday.DNA detectionIn DNA terms we are all very similar, the 3m or so DNA letters that make up your genome typically differs by just 0.1% from the person next to you - unless you are related to them. It is these differences which DNA fingerprinting (or profiling) uses to identify individuals. This can be done from samples such as blood, saliva or hair left at a crime scene. The technique works by testing several markers in the genome. Typically, these markers are the number of DNA letters between cuts made at specific points in the DNA by enzymes that act as molecular scissors. An early success saw the technique used to convict Colin Pitchfork in 1988 of the rape and murder of two girls in 1983 in Narborough, Leicestershire.Forensic scientists can now achieve a DNA match using much smaller samples. The revised technique - called low copy number DNA (LCN) evidence - involves amplifying the DNA in the original sample before creating a profile. It has been used by the UK's Forensic Science Service since 1999 in more than 20,000 cases. It featured in the conviction of Australian Bradley Murdoch for the murder of British backpacker Peter Falconio.James Randerson