The jury in the Damilola Taylor trial saw the key prosecution witness make a grasping motion with her fingers and say, "Just give me the £50,000," in a police video interview played yesterday.The jury in the Old Bailey trial saw a sequence in which the then 13-year-old girl - who is now 14 - joked with a teacher who was acting as an "appropriate adult" to look after her interests. The girl said, "Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme" as she talked about the £50,000 reward offered by a national newspaper. After discussion about the cost of telephone calls, the girl told the woman: "D'ya know, I figured how much I am going to give you." - Teacher: "How much of what?" Girl: "The money." - Teacher: "The rate you're going, I doubt very much your evidence will be any use at all to get any reward." Girl: "Yeah, but they still got to give me some money for wasting my time." - Teacher: "Wasting your time?" Girl: "My time and your time." - Teacher: "You have nothing but time." Girl: "They can let you go to Jamaica and let me go too ... just give me the £50,000. Gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme, gimme." The jury was told by defence barrister George Carter-Stephenson QC, to look out for references to the reward, which the defence suggests "are important". Mark Dennis, prosecuting, has told the jury it will have to decide how much the reward had helped or motivated the girl to come forward. In another part of the interview, the girl says: "I'm going to get my mum to give me £110 ... I got told I could get some money now." - Teacher: "Get some money for what?" Girl: "From the £50,000. So you can get some too." - Teacher: "No, but why? You're not just telling them your story for the £50,000 are you?" The jury also watched video footage of the girl telling police she had witnessed the killing of Damilola, which the judge, Mr Justice Hooper, asked to be replayed so the jury could watch the girl's reactions rather than follow events in their written transcripts. Her taped confession of having witnessed the killing came after days during which the girl had told police officers two different versions of how she knew what had happened, until finally she broke down in tears after owning up to being there. As she was told she could take a break, the tearful girl fell into the arms of a teacher who told her: "Come here, let me give you a hug." Damilola, 10, from Nigeria, bled to death on a stairwell after being stabbed in the leg with a broken bottle in November 2000. Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old youth deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Damilola's father Richard hid his face behind his hands as the girl described how she had seen Damilola trying to crawl away after being stabbed with a bottle. She told police she had seen one of the youths break a bottle and pass it to one of the brothers. She added: "Then they must have stabbed. And then he was crying for help. I thought they had punched him, so I thought: Why he did cry for help. He was just saying 'Help, help, help'." The trial continues. Press Association