It's a summer day on Bastoey island, and Magne Ramstad is making the most of it. Lying on his back in his shorts, the 38-year-old Norwegian is busy working on his tan. Around him is a beautiful Scandinavian landscape: lush woodland, bright-coloured houses and the sparkling waters of the Oslo fjord. For a prison, it's an idyllic setting."This place is unbelievable," says Ramstad, who is serving a six-year sentence for smuggling hashish. "At the prison I was at before this one, we were locked up in our cells 23 hours a day."On the 1-sq mile island, the 115 inmates, who include murderers, rapists and fraudsters, enjoy activities not usually associated with detention centres. In summer, they can improve their backhand on the tennis court, ride a horse in the forest and hit the beach for a swim. In winter, they can go cross-country skiing or participate in the prison's ski-jumping competition.But first, the inhabitants must work. As the island is a farm, there are cattle to tend, timber to cut, and organic crops to grow. Inmates also work at a sawmill, where axes, knives and saws are accessible. Another job is to restore wooden houses dotted around the island. "It's good training," Ramstad says. "You do carpentry and plumbing. I'm hoping to get a certificate in using digging machines."Inmates work between 8.15am and 2.30pm. Afterwards, they retreat to their homes - comfortable wooden houses shared between four and six inmates. As Bastoey is an open prison, relatives can pay visits at the weekend - the island is accessible via a twice-daily, 15-minute ferry ride. Inmates can also leave Bastoey for up to 18 days during the year, and 30 days if they have children.All inmates must begin their sentences in a traditional, closed prison, from where they apply to live at Bastoey. The prison selects individuals on the basis of whether they want to turn their lives around.Bastoey is based on the idea that traditional, repressive prisons do not work. "The biggest mistake that our societies have made is to believe that you must punish hard to change criminals," explains Bastoey's governor, Oeyvind Alnæs. "This is wrong. The big closed prisons are criminal schools. If you treat people badly, they will behave badly. Anyone can be a citizen if we treat them well, respect them, and give them challenges and demands."Bastoey's philosophy is that individuals will stop their criminal behaviour if they develop a sense of responsibility, as well as empathy. And the way to achieve that is to take care of the nature around them. In the stables, for instance, each person is responsible for a horse or a cow."I've seen people refuse to take leave because their favourite cow is giving birth," says Haavald, 58, who is serving a five-and-a-half year sentence for fraud and who shows the new arrivals how to work with horses. "One guy - who all his adult life had beaten up people to collect debts owed to criminals - one day, a calf was born and it did not breathe. This guy gave it mouth-to-mouth. You could see he was shaken." Haavald is collaborating with an agricultural school on the mainland. Once out of prison, he intends to carry on."Ecology is a great tool," adds Alnæs, "because it shows that what we do has an impact on the future. Criminals often do not think before acting."Bastoey also runs education courses and programmes for violent offenders, alcoholics or drug users. The focus is to challenge their behaviour and force them to confront what they have done. "It is easier to do that in a setting where they have responsibilities than in a closed prison, where they lie back on a bunk and wait for their food," says Alnæs.Cheaper to runSecurity is deliberately kept low. There are only 69 guards working on the island - the lowest prisoner-to-guard ratio in Norway. This makes Bastoey cheaper to run: it costs 900 kroner (£78) per person per day, compared with 1,000 kroner (£86) for an average open prison and 1,300 kroner (£112) for a closed one.Bastoey also runs a training programme for parents. "A lot of the men here are fathers, but they don't know how to be a good parent," says Alnæs. "They had bad fathers themselves."The prison has run on these principles for about 10 years, its policy developed by Alnæs's predecessor. Before that, the island had been an open prison since 1984 for individuals serving short sentences.It is difficult to know whether Bastoey works better than a traditional prison, as there are no reoffending figures, although Alnæs is looking for a researcher to work on this. A possible indication that the prison does work is that, in five years, there has been only one escape, and no inmate has ever escaped while on leave: "It's not in their interest," Alnæs explains. "If they escape, they are sent straight back to a closed prison." A bigger problem, he says, is tourists who "want to see what a 'real criminal' looks like".The regime at Bastoey sounds exceptional, but it is not too dissimilar from other open prisons across Norway. What sets Bastoey apart from others is its emphasis on ecology as a tool for rehabilitation.Norway has one of the lowest incarceration rates in Europe - less than half the rates in England and Wales or in Scotland. The country's prison population increased 20% between 1992 and 2004, while over the same period, the figure for England and Wales jumped 67%, and 28% in Scotland.Bastoey seems to have got the thumb's up from Norway's centre-left government. The justice minister recently visited the island and praised its philosophy as "genius", according to the governor. When Alnæs mentioned that he did not have the money to restore two bathrooms, 600,000 kroner (£51,000) arrived two days later from the ministry.Manage in societyNorway wants to make more use of open prisons. "Our aim is that all prisoners should start their sentence in a closed prison and finish it in an open one," explains Kristin Boelgen Bronebakk, head of the Norwegian Correctional Services. "They have to be able to manage in society after their sentence is over." However, there is some criticism of this policy. The Freedom party, a popular rightwing opposition group, is calling for tougher, longer sentences.Could a prison like Bastoey be transferred anywhere else? "Bastoey is a very good model," says Nils Christie, a leading criminology expert at the University of Oslo. "It handles prison time in a very good way, and has a very clear idea of what it wants to achieve. Each prison should strengthen its uniqueness, like Bastoey has done." However, Christie stresses that Bastoey cannot easily be duplicated: "It's a farm in the middle of a fjord. You can't have it in a big city."In the UK, where the government is seeking longer punishments, it would seem unlikely that a Bastoey would ever be created. However, there is an English prison that shares similarities with Bastoey. At Grendon, in Buckinghamshire, the staff run a therapeutic programme dedicated to developing inmates' sense of responsibility by confronting the acts they have committed.And some campaigners would welcome a Bastoey here. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, says: "This innovative Norwegian model promotes the principles and practices that most criminal justice professionals know to work - a requirement that offenders take responsibility for their lives and work hard to pay back for what they've done, in a setting that is small-scale, manageable and from which family contact can be maintained."