A police inquiry was today launched after a man believed to have been carrying a firearm was shot by officers last night.Strathclyde police officers opened fire on the man on a council estate in the Gorbals area of Glasgow shortly after 8pm. He was taken to hospital, where he was said to be in a serious but stable condition. Nobody else was injured, and the unidentified man was not thought to have discharged a firearm during the incident. Witnesses said the man, who was taken to the Victoria Infirmary, had been carrying a shotgun and was shot in the stomach after police chased him on foot. The shooting happened after an armed response unit and other police were called to the Glasgow Green area. Deputy Chief Constable Ricky Gray confirmed that an inquiry into the shooting would be launched. "As is the procedure, a chief officer from an external force will carry out a full and thorough review of all the circumstances," he said.Dozens of officers attended the scene last night, completely sealing off the estate. Residents watched from their windows as officers collected evidence from the scene. "I heard a man was running about with a shotgun," 25-year old Wendy Hamilton said. "Next thing the police arrived, and bang." Another resident, 17-year-old James Rooney, said: "There was this baldy guy with a beard running through the estate, and the police were chasing him. He pulled a gun out and the police shot him in the stomach." A 34-year-old resident said he saw the incident unfold from the windows of his first floor flat. "I heard this commotion, and I looked out the window and saw this guy running round the corner. A couple of seconds later there was six or seven police behind him," he said. "Somebody shouted: 'He's got a gun'. Next thing, I heard a shot and the guy was lying on the ground and a policeman was standing over him pointing a gun at him." The witness said the man had been carrying what looked like a shotgun. His wife added: "I know it seems unbelievable because this is the Gorbals, but this sort of thing never happens round here. It's like an episode of The Bill."