The murdered British student Meredith Kercher died fighting off a sexual attack, police said today after three people were arrested in connection with her death.The body of 21-year-old Ms Kercher was found in her bedroom in Perugia, where she was studying on an exchange programme, last Friday. Her throat had been cut.Arturo de Felice, the Perugia police chief, told a press conference officers had arrested the victim's 20-year-old American flatmate, Amanda Marie Knox, the American's 24-year-old boyfriend, Raffaele Sollecito, and a Congolese barman, 38, identified as Lumumba "Patrick" Diya.Mr De Felice added that Ms Kercher was a "victim and nothing more". A postmortem revealed there was evidence of sexual activity before her death, but did not confirm she had been raped.The Italian news agency Ansa reported that detectives had swooped today after Ms Knox, also a student, apparently broke down during police questioning and confessed. In a press conference later, detectives confirmed that Ms Kercher appeared to have been killed because she refused to take part in violent sex. Ansa reported that the officers said the arrests meant they had closed the case.The investigating magistrate, Nicola Miriano, yesterday suggested Ms Kercher could have been attacked by more than one assailant. In a statement, he said her death was caused "by a violent action by an unidentified person or persons".The student had been to a Halloween party before making the short walk home alone at around 9pm last Thursday evening. It is believed she died in the early hours of Friday morning.Her partially clothed body was discovered under a duvet in a house near the city centre. Journalist Nick Pisa told Sky News detectives had found a wealth of clues in her rented student accommodation, including two mobile phones covered with fingerprint evidence.Blood was also detected on a broken window through which her attacker is believed to have escaped.Her father, John Kercher, told the Daily Telegraph he found it "very difficult" to believe postmortem examination reports that she had sex with her killer before being murdered.Italian press reports claimed a cook working in a local bar was a suspect. Newspapers also said police were studying her diary and laptop computer for evidence, and looking through photographs she placed on the Facebook website in which she posed with friends in Perugia.Ms Kercher's return journey from the party took her through Piazza Grimana, where a basketball court is used as a meeting point for drug addicts at night. "There are CCTV cameras in Perugia, but not in the square, so the addicts come here," Francesco Barraco, who knew Ms Kercher and lives on the square, said.Two other residents who knew Ms Kercher, Gennaro Crugliano and Pasquale Alessi, were planning a candlelit vigil last night outside Perugia's cathedral, with a banner hoisted at the town hall bearing her name.Flyers announcing the event handed out in the city during the day read: "With greatest love from all your friends in Perugia, addio Meredith."