Cambridgeshire police admit that the Soham case has highlighted major flaws in the way large investigations are run and the fallout has seen calls for radical reforms for the way the most serious crimes are tackled.Problems encountered during the hunt for Holly and Jessica's abductor will help the government make its case for an FBI-style force which would be brought in to take over the most serious and high-profile inquiries. The fallout from the case may also strengthen the argument for a move away from the current structure of 43 separate forces. Last month the home secretary, David Blunkett, said the time was right to consider introducing new larger "strategic forces". Ian Huntley's behaviour had attracted the suspicions of the police within hours of the disappearance of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Detectives say that over the next 13 days before he was arrested he stayed in the "top five" of a list of 350 people the police were interested in. However, Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson, who took over the inquiry 11 days after the girls went missing, says he believes the investigation had by then spread too far from Soham. The team was also put off the scent by the alibi Maxine Carr gave Huntley. Officers now accept they should have checked her story more thoroughly. Chief Constable of Cambridgeshire, Tom Lloyd, said yesterday: "Huntley was doing everything he could to evade capture ... it's easy to look back in hindsight and say things could have been done differently but we know that we could not have saved those two little girls." But the police admit that some of the errors arose out of more fundamental problems.   Intelligence systems  Cambridgeshire detectives say they tried to find out about Huntley's past from their counterparts in Humberside, where he had been accused of a number of sex crimes. Because these accusations had not led to convictions the details were not held on the police national computer. However they may have been expected to have shown up on Humberside's local "intelligence" systems. Cambridgeshire say they were told at least twice that Huntley's record was clean. The Soham police finally learned of his past thanks to a tip off from the public and he was taken in for questioning. Humberside yesterday accepted that they had "weeded out" information about Huntley which would have been of great interest to the Soham team and to officers vetting Huntley before he was cleared to take the caretaker's job. Humberside's chief constable, David Westwood, claimed this was to comply with data protection rules but admitted: "It is now apparent that this made it much more difficult for us to identify individuals who were subject to unproven allegations of a similar nature over a period of years. "We will now ensure that we do everything within our power to retain accurate intelligence about those who may pose a threat to others."   Processing information  Mr Stevenson admits that the police struggled to cope with the huge amount of information the inquiry generated. Rolling news which tracked every twist and turn in the inquiry and days of front page headlines prompted a huge public response. Police received 15,000 calls in the three weeks after the girls' disappearance. More than two decades before, a torrent of information had overwhelmed detectives hunting the Yorkshire Ripper. That shortcoming led to the introduction of the Holmes system for major investigations. But the Soham team say the system could not process enough information. Eventually they had to begin processing data using the Lotus Notes programme. However, it was reported last night that the system was not used for the first week of the investigation because there were not enough skilled staff to use it. Holmes2, the system's successor, has now been rolled out to all forces. Its developers believe it is far more effective than the original system.   Media  Police sources also accept that errors were made in the media strategy in the first week. For example, when a taxi driver came forward to say he had seen the driver of a green saloon car struggling with two children at the time the girls disappeared, the police spoke about the sighting to the media before checking it. The incident room was swamped with thousands of sightings of suspicious green cars across the UK. Soon after, police discovered that the driver had been mistaken. David Morris, the coroner for south and west Cambridgeshire, suggested at the opening of the inquest on the girls that the police had been driven by the media. "The pressure to prioritise lines of inquiry in the directions demanded by the media has been enormous, expensive and time-consuming."   Mutual aid  The mutual aid process, in which officers are seconded to other forces, has also come under scrutiny. More than 300 police officers from other forces joined 178 local officers, backed by 44 civilian staff. Cambridgeshire admit they found it hard to manage such a large team.   Call handling  Police also conceded their ability to handle telephone calls was stretched to its limit. They had 200 operators answering calls, but not all had been trained properly, and vital clues may have been missed.