Sir Ian Blair, commissioner of the Met, declared this week that the police must be given more resources to meet their new responsibilities for countering terrorism. "My service will be saying to government that this really does change the way we are going to have to work," he told local government leaders. England and Wales have become "a single crime scene".The commissioner's remarks were unsurprising. Terrorism will be a major menace for years to come. The police fulfil at least as important a role as the intelligence services, and a more relevant one than the armed forces in protecting the public.Yet, while it seems right to reinforce the constabulary, it also seems vital for central government and local authorities to insist upon a bargain in return. For decades, the police have resisted reform with a stubbornness matched only by that of prison officers.Government after government has tried, and failed, to impose standards of management and accountability such as are taken for granted in the private sector and large parts of the public one. The last attempt at wholesale change was prompted by Sir Patrick Sheehy's report in 1994. This was welcomed by many outsiders, yet holed beneath the waterline by the hostility of the Police Federation and virtually all senior officers.The then home secretary, Michael Howard, was much less interested in changing structures than in pursuing a populist agenda for crimefighting. He needed the police at his side, not his throat. Sheehy was kicked into the long grass. In the decade since, desultory moves towards change have been talked out.Police authorities are ineffectual monitors of their local forces. If a hotel guest complains that a receptionist is rude, there is a good chance the manager will apologise. He knows he must, to stay in business. By contrast, if a member of the public complains that a police station desk officer was unhelpful, he or she is most likely to receive a few lines of typescript, maybe suggesting that the officer concerned was under special strain, having just attended a fatal accident. Hardly a senior officer in the land, not excluding Sir Ian Blair, is immune from the vice of supposing that his first duty is to shield his own rank-and-file.Barrie Irving, a former director of the Police Foundation and a long-standing student of policing, believes there is a chronic weakness of middle management. It is not that officers are not clever enough - the police long ago overtook the armed forces in the recruitment of graduates. It is that fast-track candidates for promotion are not taught the principles fundamental to any modern business: how to manage a meeting, distribute tasks among a team, identify failures and remedy them. Police hierarchies are notorious for their unwillingness to attribute blame, to place responsibility on individuals.At a recent policing seminar, Irving says he was dismayed that the response of officers to almost any problem was to invent a new form for handling it: "They work in a fantastically bureaucratised system, in some ways forced upon them by centrally imposed targets. They have grown to love forms, because these offer a way of convincing themselves that once a form has been filled in the problem has been dealt with."Back in the 80s, Sir Kenneth Newman, as Met commissioner, was invited to address a Harvard conference on community policing, in which his force was then perceived to be leading the way. Today American forces are making all the running. Bill Bratton, Mayor Giuliani's former New York police chief, now in Los Angeles, is the architect of the new Compstat system, which exposes high-level policemen to external scrutiny.Compstat obliges policemen to answer hard questions on a public platform, and also enables them to explain their own viewpoint. Their British counterparts, by contrast, are seldom called to a reckoning if things go wrong. County and city police authorities lack the knowledge and often the will to penetrate the fortresses in which senior officers entrench themselves.Some policemen, reading the above, would respond angrily that we ask them to work amid a blizzard of form-filling, race-relations inspectors, the bunglings of the crown prosecution and probation services, interfering politicians and arbiters of political correctness.I felt my own stab of sympathy for the constabulary last week. They faced criticism after new statistics revealed that since the London bombings anti-terror stop-and-searchers have scrutinised many more Asian and black people than whites. In our present circumstances, it seems intolerable to suggest that the police should waste resources checking each racial group proportionately. We face a terrorist threat from Muslim extremists, not white agnostics.There is little doubt that the Met needs additional people to address terrorism. But what kind of people? Sir Ian Blair wants to put more officers on the streets, where we can see them and be reassured by them.Yet many experts believe the real need - not merely for anti-terrorist work but to improve criminal detection techniques - is for civilian specialists, above all IT wizards, to handle data collation and analysis. Even amid London's current vulnerability, it is debatable whether more uniformed officers are required. Instead, the challenge is to manage better the manpower that forces already possess, to liberate officers from form-filling and induce them to address the issues the public cares about, not those that suit senior officers.Last spring it seemed a shocking revelation when Thames Valley constabulary established a system of awarding points to its officers for making arrests. The allocation seemed whimsical: two for detaining an illegal immigrant or shoplifter, five for an endorsable motoring offence, 10 for a rapist. A Thames Valley spokesman said the system was very popular with officers, and was designed to assist them in "prioritising their workloads".Here again was the accursed emphasis on things that can be enumerated. Irving says: "If forces are told they are being judged by targets, and know that if they come bottom of league tables they will be jumped on by critics, then inevitably they do the things which enable them to satisfy performance criteria."Some readers may be surprised that I have waited until now to mention the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes. It seems wisest to withhold judgment until the full report appears. But long before, there were grounds for concern about the circumstances in which mentally ill or drunken suspects have been shot dead by armed officers, who were readily exonerated.Policemen have a hard job. Right now, we need them more than usual. As a middle-class citizen who wants to believe in them, I incline towards giving them the benefit of the doubt whenever possible. Yet this cannot be permitted to exempt them from disciplines that now prevail in every other walk of life.Sir Ian Blair should get his extra money. But the public, through the government, must demand a return, in the form of effective, ongoing external scrutiny. I am not optimistic that we shall get it, but until we do we shall never get the police service we need.comment@theguardian.com