Detectives have intensified their efforts to establish a rapport with the fugitive murder suspect Raoul Moat by flattering him in their public statements. Forensic psychologists said police appeared to be trying to forge a bond of trust with him so he could imagine handing himself in rather than dying in the gunfight he had said he wanted.At a press conference Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson said: "We believe [him] to be a measured individual who appears to carefully plan his actions and is comfortable in an outdoor environment."Clive Sims, a consultant forensic psychologist for Suffolk mental health partnership NHS trust, said this statement appeared to appeal to Moat's narcissism, letting him know he was in control. Sims said the letters written by Moat, a former nightclub bouncer, showed him to be "incredibly controlling" with "a purposeful intent". The police reference to his comfort outdoors was an exercise in "praising his macho survival skills".Sims said: "They are valuing him, and this is part of the negotiating process too, which plays on his narcissism. You establish a rapport, however tenuous, with the person you are negotiating with, to hopefully open a bridge of communication."David Wilson, professor of criminology at Birmingham City University, said he thought Moat was probably keeping up with the manhunt coverage, either via a laptop or web-enabled phone, and could be supported by accomplices. "I think he has been organised about his planning of this and is carefully trying to present himself as a Rambo figure. The police need to establish a dialogue with him, not just saying the net is closing in but to establish some future thinking where he can see himself handing himself in. He has to trust the police, and that's what they are trying to do."But if Moat has been listening in to the appeals it appears he has not believed everything the police have said. Adamson revealed that a new letter found at Moat's vacated campsite showed that he still thought the man he shot dead last weekend was a police officer, despite repeated assertions that the person had been a martial arts instructor. Sims said this could be because Moat had become fixated on the idea."Perhaps he feels that the police are lying to him, which could have an impact on the negotiating process. If he thought the guy wasn't a policeman then everything he has done is invalidated, which could lead him to feel that he himself is invalidated."Detectives are also wrestling with the psychological consequence of Moat's regular steroid use and the possibility of his having withdrawal symptoms. "He could potentially become more irrational and start losing the control he has got," said Sims. "If he has been taking large quantities there could be significant effects. That could produce a psychotic reaction, with his behaviour becoming increasingly irrational and violent."