A couple whose two-year-old son died after drinking his mother's methadone have been jailed for his manslaughter.Sally Dent and her partner, Shaun Binfield, were found guilty by a jury at Nottingham crown court last month over the death of Riley Pettipierre last March. Dent, 33, a heroin addict, was also found guilty of cruelty to a child for failing to keep the heroin substitute out of Riley's reach.On Tuesday the pair wept in the dock as Dent was sentenced to seven and a half years and Binfield to four years. The judge, John Milmo QC, said: "You will both have his death on your consciences for the rest of your lives."During the trial the jurors had heard that the methadone was in a green and yellow child's beaker that was placed on a chest of drawers in the couple's bedroom so that Dent could easily reach it during the night.On 13 March last year Dent awoke to find Riley's lifeless body next to her in the bed. She called 999 and when paramedics arrived at the flat in Belper, Derbyshire, they found the toddler's heart had stopped beating and his lips were blue. He was taken to hospital where he was pronounced dead.Postmortem tests showed that Riley had enough methadone in his blood, stomach and urine to prove fatal. He was believed to have consumed 10ml-20ml of the drug, the court heard. Traces of cocaine were found in his hair.The trial had heard that Dent, who had been addicted to heroin since she was 16 and also used cocaine, had been prescribed methadone to help her overcome the addiction but had struggled to kick the habit.The judge accepted that Binfield's culpability in Riley's manslaughter was less than his partner's but condemned the couple for failing to move the cup out of the toddler's reach."You both knew the beaker was in a place to which he had access. Ms Dent showed a reckless disregard for the child's safety by asking Shaun Binfield to move it. But you Mr Binfield didn't bother to check the next morning whether there was methadone still in the cup at the side of the bed," he said."You had the last opportunity to protect your son and you failed in that duty. There was no excuse for leaving it where Riley could get to it."The judge said he had taken into consideration that the family had ensured the physical safety of their child by installing safety gates around their home and that witnesses during the trial had spoke of a well-cared for and clean home. But he added: "If one parent is addicted to Class A drugs, there must be a risk to a child."In mitigation, Dent's barrister, Simon Clarke, said the family had tried to minimise Riley's exposure to the drug by installing child-proof gates around their home and ensuring Binfield looked after the children in a different room while Dent took her drugs in the kitchen. He said Dent would be "punished for the rest of her life" for failing to move the cup.Mitigating for Binfield, Paul Mann asked the judge to bear in mind the 45-year-old's personal loss. He said Binfield had tried to persuade Dent to quit the drugs during their relationship."Riley was a daddy's boy. They had a close bond. Mr Binfield has lost his son and his liberty," Mann told the judge. "I ask that you impose punishment measured with a degree of mercy."Family and friends sobbed in the public gallery as the judge jailed the pair. Dent was handed a three-year sentence to run concurrently for the second charge of cruelty to a child. The pair were told they would serve half their sentences before being released on licence.