A man who secretly married his partner against the wishes of her family was strangled, and dumped out of a moving car in revenge by two of her relatives.Cousins Tariq Mahmood, 40, and Mohammed Jahangir, 24, who conspired to murder Zafar Iqbal, 22, were jailed yesterday at Bradford crown court. They admitted plotting the killing of Mr Iqbal after he disappeared with their cousin, Rizwana Arif, believing he was ruining the good name of her family. The defendants persuaded Mr Iqbal to get in their car, where Mahmood strangled him with a seatbelt before dumping him from the vehicle. Jahangir, who was driving, did nothing to stop him. Mr Iqbal, 22, was found dead in a car park in the West Bowling area of Bradford, West Yorkshire, on January 18, with a mark on his hand from where the Mazda had run over his body. Bradford crown court heard that Ms Arif, 22, had twice been imprisoned by her relatives, who wanted to force her to marry her cousin, Mahmood's brother, who lived in Pakistan. But she was freed by the police and fled her home in Oldham to be with Mr Iqbal in Bradford, where they lived together for 10 days before he was killed. The honorary recorder of Bradford, Judge Stephen Gullick, sentencing Mahmood to 19 and a half years in prison and Jahangir to 15 years yesterday, said he had decided on the jail terms by considering the minimum tariffs he would have passed in a murder trial. He said: "This was an unlawful conspiracy; it was a matter of revenge taken against a man you considered had befouled your family, it was a deliberate, targeted killing. There was planning and premeditation involved and you set off to Bradford with one sole purpose in mind." Mahmood, who came to Britain in 1999 and was helped by an interpreter, has already received a notice for his deportation to Pakistan and will be sent back there once he has finished his sentence. The prosecutor, Alistair MacDonald QC, said Ms Arif's family had wanted to force her into marriage because the union between cousins was a strong tradition in the Mirpur area of Pakistani Kashmir, from which they originated. The defendants, both from Oldham, believed their cousin's relationship with Mr Iqbal brought the whole family into disrepute. The court heard Mahmood was also angry because Mr Iqbal was married to someone else and had never been divorced, making his new union illegal in civil law.