The number of prisoners in England and Wales reached an all-time high of 74,543 yesterday, despite pleas from ministers to the courts to use imprisonment as a last resort.The rapid rise in the jail population - up 2,167 in the last six weeks alone - has alarmed prison chiefs working in a system only 600 short of its official "bust" limit. The Prison Service is urgently considering the reintroduction of Operation Safeguard, the large-scale use of police cells, for the first time since December 2002. Ministers are very reluctant to take this step as police cells offer a very limited regime and cost £363 a night for each inmate - more than three times the normal cost. A Prison Service spokeswoman said numbers had risen since a Christmas dip because of the courts' greater use of custody. The previous record of 74,460 was reached on November 18. "We are monitoring the situation. We are looking at the options, including police cells and getting any out-of-commission cells back into use as quickly as possible," she said. Juliet Lyon, the director of the Prison Reform Trust, said 81 of the 140 prisons in England and Wales were now officially overcrowded, with 11 exceeding maximum capacity. She added: "To avoid a crisis, [the government] must act now to divert petty offenders into effective community penalties, addicts into rehabilitation and the mentally ill into the health system, as well as curbing excessive sentence lengths and any needless use of custodial remand." The home secretary, David Blunkett, said in December that he hoped for a big expansion of community punishments to cap prison numbers at 80,000. But the most recent projections suggest that even the most optimistic scenario sees jail numbers in England and Wales reaching 87,200. The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said the numbers would continue to rise until the government tackled the "revolving door" problem. "Overcrowding means too often prison has no rehabilitative effect. The majority of offenders leave prison and reoffend ... It means getting tough on prisoners, and developing a new education-centred regime which prepares offenders for a life on the straight and narrow."