Two businessmen were today found guilty of forging and selling the signatures of sports stars including Steven Gerrard and Jonny Wilkinson.Faisal Madani, 43, and 45-year-old Graeme Walker were convicted after a five-week trial.The trial heard evidence from England footballers Gerrard and Michael Owen and World Cup-winning rugby player Wilkinson. The signatures of the three, along with those of David Beckham and the Manchester United manager, Sir Alex Ferguson, were "systematically" forged, the jury at Chester crown court heard. Jurors were told that other counterfeit goods sold by the men included replicas of England international caps and Worthington and European cup final shirts, which were sold as genuine. Walker owned a shop, Sporting Icons Ltd, in Chester city centre, and also operated on eBay, while Madani was described as the "middle man".Walker and Madani denied all the charges, claiming the items were not forgeries. The pair said the goods had been bought in good faith and from reputable sources.The court found Walker guilty of 51 of the 53 charges against him, including dishonestly trading by selling the faked signatures of Ferguson, Cristiano Ronaldo, Roy Keane, Gerrard, Wilkinson and others. He was cleared of selling a fraudulent Worthington Cup final Liverpool shirt, which was claimed to have been the shirt worn by Owen in the match, and was also cleared of selling a photograph with a fake signature of Owen. Madani was convicted of 18 of the 20 charges against him including supplying many of the items to Walker. He was cleared of selling a photograph with a faked Gerrard signature.The court heard that the bulk of the fraud took place between 2003 - when England lifted the Rugby World Cup after Wilkinson's last-minute drop kick - and 2005, when Liverpool, captained by Gerrard, recorded their fifth Champions League victory. Cheshire County council's director of community services, John Weeks, said Liverpool and Manchester United football clubs and their players had helped uncover the forgeries, saying the result would be "welcomed by sports fans everywhere". "Ruthless exploitation of the devotion that fans show their clubs and sporting heroes was exposed on a scale which shocked us and, indeed, helped fund a high street business," he added. Madani, of Bramhall, Cheshire, and Walker, of Connah's Quay, Flintshire, already have convictions for dishonesty and trademark offences. They now face potential jail terms.