Almost one in six women imprisoned while waiting for trial is subsequently acquitted or given a non-custodial sentence, according to the biggest survey ever conducted into women on remand.The survey by the Prison Reform Trust, to be published next month, has raised urgent questions over why increasing numbers of women are being remanded into custody, despite being charged with non-violent or minor offences once their cases reach the courts. 'If, as prison statistics demonstrate, the women's remand population is predominantly comprised of defendants charged with non-violent offences, how do courts justify the use of custody?' asked Juliet Lyon, director of the trust. While imprisonment is always a stressful experience, the trauma is disproportionally damaging to women, who suffer far more mental and physical problems than male prisoners and a worse breakdown of family ties. Women in remand, however, are the most vulnerable group of all, the survey found, with 40 per cent having received help for a mental health problem in the year before imprisonment. 'The social background of women in prison is deprived in multiple ways but remanded women are worse off than those under sentence in many ways,' said Lyon. Over a quarter of women on remand have attempted suicide in the year previous to custody while 40 per cent have used heroin in the year before coming to prison, compared to 23 per cent of sentenced women. Although the number of girls under 21 remanded in custody is small, this is an even more delicate group: four of the 10 self-inflicted deaths by women on custodial remand during the first six months of 2003 were by under-21s. The story of 19-year-old Jennifer Clifford, a heroin addict, is typical. In custody while waiting for trial on shoplifting charges, she hanged herself in her cell with a homemade ligature. 'These findings are outrageous,' said Professor Dorothy Wedderburn, chair of the Committee of Women's Imprisonment, a body set up by the Prison Reform Trust. 'The courts and criminal justice system as a whole are behaving inhumanely,' she said. 'This is a gross and unacceptable violation of the human rights of women often too vulnerable to face imprisonment at all.' According to the European Court of Human Rights, all defendants awaiting trial should be awarded bail except those considered likely to interfere with witnesses or evidence, commit an offence, fail to attend trial or be at risk of harm to themselves or others. But despite the high rate of release post-trial, the numbers of women on remand in prison is growing faster than any other group in the prison population, with a 35 per cent increase between 2000 and 2002. The Prison Reform Trust believes women are being refused bail by magistrates who decide to 'play it safe' by remanding a woman to custody after a perfunctory decision-making process based on insufficient information supplied by the police and Crown Prosecution Service. 'Women are being denied bail for reasons that are poorly supported, during hearings held in indecent haste,' said Lyon. According to the Law Commission, the majority of remand hearings last less than 10 minutes, with a 'substantial minority' taking less than two minutes. 'A woman charged with a non-violent offence, who has not been in prison before, and who then spends six weeks apart from her young children as a result of a decision which magistrates reached in less than 10 minutes, has good reason to question the legitimacy of her imprisonment,' said Lyon, 'especially if she is then acquitted, as was the case with over a fifth of women remanded in 2001.' In the few cases in which magistrates did state their reasons for refusing bail, the trust found it was often because women's offending was linked to social exclusion, manifested in unstable accommodation, mental health problems and drug dependency. 'The courts may feel their decision to deny bail is playing safe in terms of reoffending,' said Lyon. 'But this utterly fails to take into account the probable impact of custody on these women.' The survey also found that women on remand suffer from an absence of proper drug treatment which, given the high number who are drug dependent, leads to high levels of self-harm, mental health problems and long-term trauma, including homelessness and financial problems.