A severed head found in a Leicestershire field belonged to the same man whose arm and leg were discovered at separate locations in Hertfordshire, detectives said today.Officers from both forces will now combine their investigation in an attempt to identify the victim.Detective Superintendent Julia McKechnie, from Leicestershire constabulary, said: "Tests have taken place which can confirm the human head found in Leicestershire is forensically linked to the body parts found in Hertfordshire."Detective Chief Inspector Michael Hanlon, from the Bedfordshire and Hertfordshire major crime unit, added: "At this stage the victim, an adult man, has not been identified."The left leg was the first body part to be discovered when police were alerted by a resident in the Hertfordshire village of Cottered on 22 March. It had been hidden in a green holdall behind a hedgerow next to the A507. A week later walkers out on farmland in Wheathampstead, Hertfordshire, found a left forearm on a grass verge at a spot known as Drovers Lane. It was not concealed, raising the possibility that it might have been disturbed by a fox or other wild animal.The limbs were found about a 30-minute drive apart. Earlier this week Hertfordshire police said DNA tests confirmed they had belonged to the same person.From the length of the arm and leg, the victim is estimated to have been between 5ft 6in and 5ft 10in tall. He is believed to have been white or Asian. His DNA profile did not match any held on the national DNA database.One detail that is known is that the man suffered from a skin condition which caused discolouration in the pigmentation around the ankle, giving a "bleaching" effect. Examinations have also shown that the victim suffered from eczema, which caused the skin to "scale".The severed head was found on Tuesday afternoon when a farmer stumbled across it in one of his fields in Asfordby. Initial tests at the Leicester Royal Infirmary confirmed that it was a man's head. The farmer, Tony Lomas, said yesterday: "It's naturally very distressing to find something like this on land you own and I am doing everything I can to help the police and will continue to help them in any way I can."