A barrister who was shot by armed police officers after a five-hour seige suffered multiple bullet wounds, a postmortem has found. Mark Saunders, 32, was found dead on Tuesday inside his flat in Chelsea, west London, after repeatedly firing at officers who had been called to the scene.Last night it had not been determined how many bullets fired by armed officers had struck the lawyer, who had served in Iraq with the Territorial Army.The investigation into how police came to shoot Saunders dead is being conducted by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. It refused to give details of the postmortem examination, but more details are expected to emerge today when an inquest is opened at Westminster coroner's court. Representatives from the IPCC and Metropolitan police will make statements at the hearing.Saunders opened fire into a crowded street at 5pm on Tuesday. He then shot at a car containing armed officers after neighbours called police. Police returned fire and Saunders fired out of the second floor window of his flat twice more.Police returned fire. After the barrister's third volley from a shotgun, he is believed to have been hit by police returning fire, and to have died as a result. Officers stormed the flat after lobbing stun grenades and CS gas. Yesterday Mr Saunders's family demanded answers over how he met his death. His father Rodney said he may not have posed a lethal threat. Speaking at his Cheshire home, Mr Saunders said he did not believe anyone life had been put in danger. He told London's Evening Standard: "Put it this way, he didn't endanger anyone at all to my knowledge and we can only surmise what might have happened before the whole thing started. I just don't know. You would imagine that it will come out in the fullness of time. We will want answers as to why police shot him."Scotland Yard sources believe the actions of officers will be found to be lawful, as the barrister was shot dead only after firing three times at police over a 4½ hour period. Neighbours said they saw him drinking on Tuesday afternoon.The incident is believed to be connected with a dispute between Saunders and his wife, Elizabeth Clarke, also a barrister at the same QEB chambers. Last night, a statement on her behalf said the couple had a "strong union", and denied reports that she was at their home immediately before the shooting. The statement said: "This is a very distressing time for all of Mark's family, who loved him dearly, and especially for Elizabeth, who much appreciates the support she has received from friends and family. Mark and Elizabeth had a strong union and were deeply committed to each other. While she grieves and come to terms with her tragic loss, she would be grateful if the media could continue to respect her privacy and leave her in peace. "Finally, it has been widely reported Elizabeth was at the family home prior to the terrible events ... She was in fact at work, and arrived home only after the area had been cordoned off." Mr Saunders was a member of the TA's Honourable Artillery Company for three years until 2002. Investigators confirmed a legally registered shotgun kept at his home has been recovered by police.