Twenty-one Chinese cockle pickers drowned in rising tides off Hest Bank in Lancashire on February 5 2004. Two more are thought to have been swept to their deaths, but their bodies have never been found.Male victims: 1. Yu Hui, 34, from Yang Bian village, Gang Tou town, Fuqing city, was married with two sons aged 15 and nine. His body was recovered at 3.28am. His father reported him missing in a call to police. He was identified using DNA samples taken from parents. He was unemployed.2. Chen Mu Yu, 30, from Ping Lin village, Sha Po town, Fuqing city, was married with one son, aged eight. His body was recovered at 4.20am. Fingerprints and an immigration photograph were used to help identify him. His sister used photographs to identify him and said a watch he was wearing was a wedding present from his wife. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his parents. He was a fisherman.3. Guo Nian Zhu, 39, from Ze Lan village, San Shan town, Fuqing city, was married with one son, aged 15, and daughters, aged 14 and 18. His body was recovered at 4.20am. His sister-in-law contacted authorities to say he may be a victim. His wife and a survivor identified him from photographs. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his parents. He was a chicken farmer.4. Lin Zhi Fang, 19, from Jiang Kou town, Han Jiang district, Putian city. His body was recovered at 6am. He was single and his father identified him from a passport photograph, a wallet and yellow metal chain. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from parents. He was a factory worker.5. Xu Yu Hua, 37, from Feng Shan village, Jiang Kou town, Han Jiang district, Putian city, was married and his wife is believed to have been another victim. His body was recovered at 6am. His brother-in-law and friend told police he had made contact with his family on February 4 to say he was going cockling with his wife. He and two of his cousins "went into the sea together". He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his sister and father. He was a driver.6. Wu Jian Zhen, 36, from Ho Pu village, Jiang Jing town, Fuqing city, was married with a son, aged 14, and a daughter, aged 15. He was a fisherman.7. Wu Hong Kang, 34, from Xia Jing village, Shang Jin town, Fuqing city, was married. His body was recovered at 7am. His wife told police he had a red bag with him containing items for good luck, which was recovered alongside a black wallet. He was not known to the immigration service and had arrived in the UK two months before his death, having spent the previous 10 months in Germany. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his wife and daughter. He was a decorator.8. Xie Xiao Wen, 41, from Nan Xiao village, Jiang Jing town, Fuqing city, was married with a son. His body was recovered at 7am. He had a cockle permit in another name and was identified with the help of immigration records. Police were told he had spoken to his sister on the day of the tragedy and told her he was cockling. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his wife and son. He was a labourer.9. Lin Guo Hua, 37, from You Yi village, Long Tian town, Fuqing city, was married. His body was recovered at 7am. He arrived in the UK in January and lived in Liverpool. His wife identified a wallet and photo found on his body. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his wife and son. He was a farmer.10. Guo Bing Long, 28, from Ze Lang village, San Shan town, Fuqing city, was married with one son, aged six, and a daughter, aged three. His body was recovered at 10am. A photograph kept by the immigration service helped to identify him. His brother said Mr Guo had contacted his family saying he was trapped in the sea. He was found with a metal watch, beaded necklace, black leather wallet, black and white metal cross and photographs. He was a farmer and was believed to be a cousin of another victim, Guo Nian Zhu.11. Zhou Xun Cao, 38, from Wu Tong village, Jiang Jing town, Fuqing city, was married with a son. His body was recovered at 7am. He had previously been arrested in Norfolk. A trading standards officer from Cambridge recorded his mobile telephone number, which was found to match the number of his phone. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his son. He was a construction worker.12. Lin Guo Guang, 36, from You Yi village, Long Tian town, Fuqing city, was married with a son. His body was recovered at 7am. He had given his parents' names to immigration and when his wife was contacted, she also told officers he used another name. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his son. He was a cousin of two other victims - Xu Yu Hua and Lin You Xing - and was a farmer.13. Cao Chao Kun, 35, from Chang Xi village, Jiang Jing town, Fuqing city, was married. His body was recovered at 7am. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his brother. He was a farmer.14. Guo Chang Mou, 18, from Zhe Lang Chuen village, Fuqing city, was single. His body was recovered at 7am. A photograph and fingerprint from immigration helped to identify him. He had previously been arrested on October 4 2003 in Southampton. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his parents. He was a farmer.15. Yang Tian Long, 33, from Nui Feng village, Sha Pu town, Fuqing city, was separated from his wife. He had one son, aged 15, who is cared for by neighbours. His body was recovered at 7.50am by local fishermen. A survivor told police he was contacted by Mr Yang on the night of the tragedy and asked to summon help because people were drowning. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his son and sister. His occupation is unknown.16. Lin Li Shui, 33, was from An Quian village, San Shan town, Fuqing city. His body was recovered at 7.50am by local fishermen. His brother-in-law reported him missing on February 7. Three survivors used a photograph of Mr Lin to help identify him and his father identified a white metal watch found on his body. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his son and father. He was a factory worker.17. Wang Ming Lin, 37, from Fujian province, was married with a son, aged 13, and two daughters, aged 13 and 16. His body was recovered at 2.15pm. His wife told authorities he had two scars on his face and a mole under one eye, which matched markings on the body. His father identified a wallet, red bag, photo and yellow cloth with Chinese writing on it. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his parents. He was a farmer.18. Lin You Xing, 38, from Yo Yi village, Long Tian town, Fuqing city, was married with a son. His badly decomposed body was recovered weeks after the tragedy. He had been arrested in August 2003 and his wife told detectives he had a missing tooth and supplied his mobile phone number, which helped identify him. He was positively identified using DNA samples taken from his son. He was a cousin of two other victims - Xu Yu Hua and Lin Guo Guang - and was a farmer.Female victims:  1. Chen Ai Qin, 39, from Long Shang village, Gao Shan town, Fuqing city, was widowed with a son, aged 14, and a daughter, aged nine. Her body was recovered at 6am. A Chinese journalist told police he had been contacted by the victim's brother. She had pierced ears and a scar from a sterilisation operation, which helped identify her. She was positively identified using DNA samples taken from her father and daughter. She was a farmer.2. Zhang Xiu Hua, 45, from Shu Jia Tun District, Shenyang city, Liaoning Province, was married with a daughter, aged 15, and a son, aged 22. Her body was recovered at 6am. She was reported missing by her family and an immigration photo was used to help identify her. Two survivors helped provide details, one saying she was from the north-east of China. Her husband identified yellow metal earrings, a gold necklace and a green pendant found on the body. She was positively identified using samples taken from her husband and children. She was a farmer.3. Wang Xiu Yu, 27, from Dong Guo village, San Shan town, Fuqing city, was married with a daughter, aged eight. Her body was recovered at 1.30pm on February 15. She was found lying face down on the beach by a passer-by. Mrs Wang lived in Priory Road, Liverpool. Her husband told detectives she had a small scar on her right knee and stretch marks from childbirth. Her mother identified her from a silver watch and earrings. She was positively identified using DNA samples taken from her parents. She was a farmer.Missing: 1. Dong Xin Wu, 38, from Chang Shan district, Fuzhov city, was married with a daughter, aged 13. He was a cobbler.2. Liu Qin Ying, 37, from Feng Shan village, Jiang Kou town, Putian city. She was believed to be married to the victim Xu Yu Hua and they had a 13-year-old son. She was a farmer.