True to their tradition, barristers reacted with fury this week to the government's proposals to widen access to lawyers. When it comes to protecting restrictive practices, blue-collar workers - printers, stevedores, car assembly workers - have never been never able to hold a candle to the energy applied by the stiff-collared Bar. Its current chairman, Matthias Kelly, promised one-stop shops with lawyers and accountants practising together would be fought "tooth and claw". To their credit, the Law Society, representing 90,000 solicitors, was much calmer. Many of the biggest law firms are in favour of the proposal, but the society's chief executive, pointed to the the danger of new entrants being able to cherrypick more profitable and less complex areas of work, threatening the viability of established local firms offering a full range of services to a community.What the lawyers still fail to face up to is their unfriendly reputation. Large numbers of people still regard the local solicitors office as "Not for us". Hence the initial success of claims-chasing companies, such as the now defunct Claims Direct, which chased up business for solicitors. People went to them because they were more accessible and appeared to charge lower fees. Ironically, the total fee was often higher, because the claims companies took a share of the damages. Under the new "Tesco law" proposals, the current structure would be transformed with banks, building societies and even supermarkets encouraged to employ lawyers to provide legal advice on wills, house purchase and other mainstream work. Solicitors would be allowed to go into business with accountants and tax advisers to offer a "one-stop shop". The proposals do not stop there. The Law Society could lose its self-regulation powers. Questioned on the issue by legal correspondents this week, Lord Falconer, the new lord chancellor, gave the right response: "Is it in the interest of the consumer and the public that lawyers regulate themselves?" He implicitly replied that it was not by noting that this week's reports from his department documented the shortfalls in the current system. He described the current framework as "outdated, inflexible, over-complex and insufficiently accountable or transparent". There are 22 overlapping regulators. Stand by for change plus more competition, lowering prices. But don't expect it quickly. This week's working party will take 18 months to report.