Squeezed between a rundown hotel and an unloved cottage, the block of flats at the perimeter of Heathrow airport is about as anonymous as a children's home can get. The only sign of youthful life is a broken five-a-side football goal on the driveway.The youngsters who live here have been intercepted by the Border and Immigration Agency. About half of them are Chinese children on their way to a life of exploitation in prostitution, the drugs trade and illegal unpaid labour in London and beyond. They are suspected victims of trafficking and given the danger they are in, this block of 59 rooms should be the safest place in the world – but it isn't.According to an internal intelligence report obtained by the Guardian, at least 77 Chinese children have gone missing from this place since March 2006 and the authorities believe they have fallen straight back into the hands of their ­traffickers. They are picked up with ­astonishing ease."The last absconder we heard of was a girl who came in through the front door and went straight out the [other] side," said a police source. "The social workers just heard the car door shutting and the car pulling off and she was gone. It was panic stations. It was clear she'd called her handler and they had co-ordinated it."Sometimes individuals the authorities suspect to be traffickers walk up to the intercom at the front door and ask after the whereabouts of their victim, according to an official who helps run the home.The report into the loss of Chinese ­children from care at Heathrow provides the most detailed picture yet of the ­Chinese child trafficking into the UK operated by organised crime networks with tentacles as far apart as Sao Paulo, Nairobi and Malaysia.It shows how immigration officers believe organised crime groups have exploited the relatively unsecure centre at Heathrow as a kind of clearing house for their trade in children.And it reveals concern that not enough has been done by the police to investigate and prosecute those responsible. The story starts in Fujian for most of the children who arrive at Heathrow. This province in the south-east of the People's Republic enjoys strong trade with Taiwan, but has earned a reputation as the Chinese centre of people trafficking. The 23 cockle pickers who died in ­Morecambe Bay came from there and the largest number of Chinese illegal immigrants in the US are said to be from the province.In recent years more and more of its young people have been sent to the UK to work in the labour-hungry illegal industries of prostitution and drug production – cannabis in particular – in which Chinese criminal gangs are active. The traffickers, known as snakeheads in China, prefer "the use of circuitous and multi-stage routes to the UK" to make it difficult to for the authorities to link ­victims to their traffickers, the report states.That certainly seems to be borne out by what is known of the itineraries of the Heathrow victims. Two have been linked to travel agencies in Florence and Milan while a named Chinese travel agency is linked to at least four cases who came from China via other European airports.Last year the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca) disrupted a ­suspected ­trafficking ring operating through ­Manchester airport in which Chinese ­children were routed through Italy.In several cases the children appear to have travelled with the assistance of a suspected boarding card swapper from Japan named in the document, who puts them on planes to London from the far east.The swapping system is another ruse to shake the authorities off. Another child arrived with the help of two Malaysian facilitators while three more came via ­Nairobi having bought ­tickets from the same Kenya Airways agent using cash. But the longest route, clocking up 17,500 miles, was taken by six children who flew across the Pacific via Brazil. At least two children are known to have been aided by a man and a woman who act as facilitators and organised flights on the Brazilian airline TAM from Sao Paulo to London.A "threat assessment" of child trafficking published last month by the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Agency (Ceop) makes clear that the trafficking process can take up to a year, with victims sometimes being forced to pay off some of their bonded debt before being transported to their final destination.Being trafficked is not cheap. Debts have risen to £40,000 in at least one case noted by Ceop. In some cases children adopted the identities of Chinese students with valid leave to remain in the UK, but more often they destroyed their ­paperwork in transit before they arrived at the UK in an effort to cover their tracks and, in some cases, to mask the fact that they are in fact 18 or older, which means they would stand less chance of staying in the UK.Once in London the border officials, if satisfied that an unaccompanied arrival may be under 18, hand over the child to the social services and they are taken to the discrete processing centre which is five minutes drive from Terminal 5. "Typically a Chinese young person will seek to contact a 'relative' at an address or restaurant premises," states the report. "Some of the addresses used by them are already of interest to the Border and Immigration Agency in relation to other adult Chinese immigration offenders."Two addresses often provided are a single London hotel and a secluded suburban street of semi-detached homes in Haringey, north London, which has a Chinese population of around 2,500. At least one Chinese family is accommodated in a block of flats on the street. Otherwise there are few leads as to where the childrenmight go."It is very difficult to get information out of these people," said Detective Inspector Gordon Valentine, who heads the Metropolitan police's child trafficking unit. "They are afraid of the traffickers and they are afraid of retribution against their families back home if they talk.""There is an intelligence black hole," added Peter Clark, the Chinatown community police officer in London who hears of one or two cases of absconded Chinese children every week. They disappear into the community and they are gone. We think that most of the children go into cannabis cultivation all over the country from Scotland to Cornwall."The report states: "The concerns are that with the organised nature of Chinese illegal immigration, the absconding is at the behest of trafficking or facilitation organised crime groups and the ­children may be exploited for financial gain."It seems it is not by chance that traffickers regain control of these children. In fact everyone, from police to social workers, appears to know what happens here beside the ­runway. Soon after a child arrives, in most cases within 48 hours, he or she calls their ­trafficker on a pre-programmed mobile phone they have brought with them, they pack their bag and either walk out the front door or jump from one of the sliding bedroom windows, many of which are conveniently located on the ground floor.Room 12 seems to be a popular jumping-off point – four absconded from there recently, says the report. The authorities think a waiting car usually whisks them away. However, the borough of Hillingdon believes it has now started to fight back."There are still a large proportion of Chinese children who go missing, but the numbers are going down," said deputy director of children's services at Hillingdon, Julian Worcester. "We now carry out a risk assessment looking at whether the young person is vulnerable in the UK. We vet telephone calls and confiscate mobile phones and this has had an impact."But he said Hillingdon remains ­powerless to stop children leaving ­altogether because it would have to obtain a court order proving that a child is in immediate danger to keep them.He said this was not practical and has urged the government to target the source with a diplomatic campaign led by the Foreign Office to urge the ­Chinese authorities to clamp down on the traffickers. There is no suggestion that anyone with adminstrative responsibility for the home facilitates the trafficking operation.Soca believes the recent disruption may have been due to the Beijing Olympics and the tighter immigration controls in China that came with the games. If true, ­business as usual may be about to start again.Across the UK, 20% of all the suspected victims of trafficking who have been taken into care are missing and there have been no convictions of Chinese traffickers under a trafficking offence where a child has been a victim.This failure now worries the United Nations rapporteur on human trafficking, Joy Ngozi Ezeilo. "When I look at the legal aspects there are gaps," she said. "Trafficking victims need to be treated ­differently from irregular migrants. That is not happening well, especially when the victims are not willing to co-operate."The authorities are not mindful of the trauma the victims have experienced and the real threats to their lives. Too often the victims are just treated as illegal ­immigrants. There is also a lack of ­capacity among the authorities to identify the ­victims and this needs to be looked at."That lack of capacity may have had a serious effect on attempts to safeguard the Chinese children of Heathrow.For a while a surveillance operation was in place at the home to see who was ­picking up the children. But according to the leaked report, it was cancelled in ­February 2008.