A “gentle and caring” 16-year-old boy has died following an alleged stabbing at a school in Aberdeen.Police had been called to Cults Academy in the west of the city at 1.30pm on Wednesday after reports of a serious incident. The teenager, named locally and on social media as Bailey Gwynne, was taken by ambulance to Aberdeen Royal Infirmary where he died from his injuries.Another 16-year-old pupil was detained by police and was assisting officers with their inquiries.Cults Academy’s headteacher, Anna Muirhead, said pupils and staff were “in a state of total shock”. She said: “The boy involved was a very gentle and caring pupil with a lot of friends. I think it’s fair to say the whole school community is totally devastated but at the moment of course our thoughts are all with the boy’s close family and friends and what they must be going through at this tragic time.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Police cars outside Cults Academy in Aberdeen. Photograph: Derek Ironside/NewslineA Police Scotland statement confirmed that a 16-year-old boy had died, that his family had been informed and that officers were treating the incident as a murder investigation. Ch Insp Graeme Mackie said: “This is a shocking and extraordinary incident for Aberdeen and firstly our thoughts are with the family and friends of the boy who has sadly lost his life today.Cults Academy location“A full and thorough inquiry has been launched and there will be a police presence in the area for the foreseeable future. We are working closely with the education authorities and wider community as I am sure this incident will be felt not only in Aberdeen but much further afield.”The school, in an affluent suburb of Aberdeen, was cordoned off after the incident and police officers remained at the scene. A number of parents reportedly arrived at the school but were not allowed to enter the building.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Pupils gather outside Cults Academy after the alleged stabbing incident. Photograph: Derek Ironside/NewslineCults Academy is the largest state school in the city and also one of the best performing, consistently winning awards for its exam results. A new building was opened in 2010 by the then local MSP, Alex Salmond. The school is expected to be closed for several days to allow police to continue with their investigations.The first minister, Nicola Sturgeon, expressed her condolences to those affected by the incident.Nicola Sturgeon (@NicolaSturgeon)All my thoughts are with the family & friends of the young man who has tragically died at Cults Academy today. https://t.co/fPhREzsTJgOctober 28, 2015Speaking at a press conference outside the school, Mackie said the 16-year-old pupil that was detained remained in police custody. He added: “We have teams of specially trained detective officers interviewing witnesses who unfortunately are pupils and teachers at Cults Academy and as you can understand have been significantly affected by this matter.”Gayle Gorman, the director of education and children’s services for Aberdeen city council, confirmed that the school would be closed for the next two days to help police with their investigation, and that there would be counselling and support for all staff and pupils. Tributes were paid to the victim on social media using the hashtag #RIPBailey. One fellow pupil wrote: “Cults Academy won’t be the same without you.” Another girl tweeted: “As a pupil of Cults Academy, I’m so shocked. RIP Bailey x.”  Pupils laid floral tributes to their classmate outside the school gates while friends of the dead boy attended informal services of remembrance on Wednesday evening.Callum McCaig, MP for Aberdeen South, said his thoughts were with the family of the boy who died. McCaig, himself a former pupil of Cults Academy, said that the incident was “utterly out of character for the school and for Aberdeen”.“The school is a brand new facility since when I was there, absolutely state-of-the-art, in one of the wealthiest parts of the city,” he said. “It has a tremendous reputation and is regularly at the top of exam tables.”