Let us be kind to David Cameron. Let us assume that his decision to take "tea" today with the rapper Rhymefest is an honest quest for knowledge about the black urban experience.We need not be cynical about the fact that the whole thing will be conducted entirely in private. It is not that unaligned observers would throw back their heads and laugh at the sight of the boy from the hood sipping Earl Grey with the boy from west London's Notting 'hood. We must accept that this is a well-meaning exercise in social inquiry.It may be that Mr Cameron would have had more to say to 50 Cent, the famed and muscular wordsmith whose mantra, Get Rich or Die Tryin', would seem more in tune with traditional Tory philosophy. But Mr Cent also represents the gun-toting genre of rap that Mr Cameron so abhors. If he wants afternoon tea with the leader of the Conservative party, he'll have to mend his ways - or at least amend his output.So, Rhymefest it is. The meeting came about because Rhymefest got in touch after Mr Cameron was critical of gangsta rap some time ago. He seemed to link the content of the songs, with its glorification of violence and gunplay, to the atrocities real people have to contend with on the streets.He may well have a point. No one buys themselves a Mach 10 automatic machine gun simply because they heard a rapper refer to one in a song. I doubt anyone takes to calling their mothers or sisters "bitches" and "hos" merely because they have been exposed to Snoop Dogg. But there is a fair argument to make which says the endless repetition of such attitudes by people of enviable wealth and status creates a backdrop against which others may come to feel that such things are acceptable. If Mr Cameron feels moved to make that point, his meeting today may have some value.But it is a missed opportunity all the same. If the Tory leader really wants to get inside the mindset of the urbanites he is really supposed to be focused on, those in our troubled cities, there are so many other people he could more fruitfully have spent time with. We know what black sports stars and musicians think. They are the only people who ever receive any exposure. One could be forgiven for thinking theirs are the only relevant voices we have.He might better have set aside some time for Leroy McKoy, the tireless drug dealer turned youth worker who is straining every sinew to get young vulnerable people in the midlands trained and into meaningful jobs. He could have made a diary date with Greg Nicholls, the undergraduate who is fighting to make sure young people in London's East End get proper jobs and careers from the 2012 Olympics. He might have sat down with John Azah, the chair of the Met's lay advisers group whose observations of the violence scarring our cities would have much more weight than those of a recording artist from Chicago.There are activists and lawyers and teachers and trainers and drug dealers and car mechanics and traffic wardens and single mothers, all of whom could have given Mr Cameron some clue about what is unravelling in our cities. That he plumped for tea with Rhymefest tells you much that you need to know about him.