It began with a scuffle in a snooker hall. By all accounts, the altercation at the Manor Club in Haringey, north London, last January was over nothing in particular, a respect issue between two "mid-level" members of two of the capital's most violent Turkish gangs.Losing respect in gangland Britain these days is, say police, sufficient to ignite long-running feuds. When you lose face in a stand-off between the Bombacilar and the Tottenham Boys, north London's most prominent and feared Turkish crews, the fallout can be fatal.In the following weeks tensions grew, finally erupting on 22 March as Holloway shopkeeper Ahmet Paytak, 50, locked up his grocery store after another slow Sunday. A motorbike, an unusual red and black Benelli TNT, mounted the pavement outside. Its pillion passenger took aim; the assassin couldn't miss. Paytak was murdered in the doorway of Euro Wine and Food at 10.40pm. Moments later his 21-year-old son was shot in the leg as he turned to face the killer. The gunman has never been found, despite a £20,000 reward and the almost immediate realisation that the wrong man had been killed. Paytak was innocent, a "case of mistaken identity", according to murder squad officers.But the blunder failed to stem the bloodshed. Quite the opposite. Shootings between the Bombacilar and the Tottenham Boys increased. "The levels of violence have been shocking, and the number of shootings there, in London terms, is very high," said Metropolitan police commander Steve Kavanagh.Three weeks ago the feud's most audacious killing took place. Oktay Erbasli, a prominent member of the Tottenham Boys, was waiting at traffic lights at a busy junction in his Range Rover when a motorcycle pulled alongside. A hitman linked to the Bombacilar gang opened fire, killing the 23-year-old, but missing his five-year-old stepson seated beside him. Within the tit-for-tat mentality of gangland retribution, reprisals are inevitable. In Erbasli's case it came within 72 hours: Cem Duzgun, 21, had been playing snooker in a Clapton social club with friends when two hooded men approached at 10.50pm and opened fire with a semi-automatic weapon.For Scotland Yard's senior command, Duzgun's death was the final straw. Something had to give, something drastic was required to tackle the vortex of violence. The decision was taken; for the first time, officers armed with Heckler & Koch semi-automatic sub-machine guns would be deployed on routine patrol on London's streets. They could also have fast motorbikes at their disposal. History may well interpret Duzgun's killing as the catalyst for the UK's first step towards an armed police service.But the news last week attracted the inevitable backlash, with critics accusing the Met of a disproportionate, knee-jerk response that challenged the long-held British tradition of policing by consent and not force.Yet the details behind the agreement to routinely deploy C019, the Met's specialist firearms unit, on selected London streets reveals a narrative that offers a disturbing insight into how violent, anarchic gangs are able to terrorise and oppress entire communities. The decision, ratified in a recent meeting between Met borough commanders and CO19 senior officers, had followed months of anxious reports from community leaders that their areas were under siege and concerns among senior officers that they risked losing control.In particular, the criminal landscape within a narrow two-mile band of north London, between the Green Lanes area of Haringey and Clapton to the east, had reached a critical stage. A ferocious turf war between Bombacilar and the Tottenham Boys was spiralling out of control; in the period immediately before Duzgun's death the gangs were involved in a major shooting every week.Endemic extortion, intimidation and thuggish protection rackets were increasingly administered to Haringey's large Turkish and Kurdish communities as the turf war took hold. Gang members appeared to be acting with impunity, bragging to local Turkish newspapers that they were only dealing a bit of cannabis and harming no one. But underworld sources revealed the gangs had ready access to an arsenal of firearms. And neither side was shy about using them. Intelligence indicated it was only a matter of time before more innocent bystanders were killed.Kavanagh, the officer in charge of policing the area, said: "We have had a mother evacuated when they burnt out a store, murders, innocent people being shot and good honest shopkeepers bullied and extorted."He said the wives of extorted shopkeepers and the girlfriends of gangsters had, for months, pleaded with him to do something; anything to break the cycle of violence. Skirmishes between the Bombacilar and Tottenham Boys have seen 11 major shootings since August, all confined to the slender north London corridor.Police raids seized three loaded pistols, a sawn-off shotgun and a converted firearm connected to the Bombacilar and Tottenham Boys. Intelligence indicated that some of the weapons originated from eastern Europe, and although the area was "not flooded with firearms" it was the gangs' willingness to shoot first, think later, that worried Kavanagh.Suleyman Ergun, formerly one of Britain's most prominent Turkish criminals, who at the age of 21 became the world's third-biggest heroin dealer before being jailed for 14 years, told the Observer how easy it was for gangs to obtain guns. He said the majority of firearms arrived from Germany and Belgium, and there were even AK-47s (Kalashnikovs) from Afghanistan, the traditional source of heroin for Turkish traffickers."Firearms are still coming over with the heroin to north London, it's what we used to do as well," said Ergun. He added that the current price for an unused pistol in north London was £800-£900, while a brand-new submachine gun would cost £1,000-£1,500. Replica guns such as the Olympic BBM 9mm revolver could also be bought for £85 on the high street and converted by criminals to fire live ammunition.What added to the decision to use armed patrols was the intelligence that both Turkish groups had forged alliances with some of London's most notorious black gangs, all of whom held a long-standing reputation for violence and the casual use of firearms.Kavanagh believes that the unprecedented union suggests that the long-standing black gangs of Hackney had joined forces with the Turkish crews to widen their drugs markets and broaden their influence. "The expansion is to do with drugs and violence and kudos and what opportunities they have to support each other. Those bonds are quite chaotic relationships, but involve well-known Hackney gangs, the usual suspects," he said.So far detectives have been able to link three murders since March to the mounting friction between the Bombacilar and Tottenham Boys, but the involvement of the black crews, the Yardies and crack dealers, usually investigated under Operation Trident, meant that the threat and killing potential of the Turkish gangs had intensified.Senior officers were aware the decision to send routine armed patrols on to British streets would lead to accusations of heavy-handed American-style policing, but they also knew that what was happening in one small area had increased gun crime in London by 17% and the city was being blighted.As commanders weighed up the advantages against the chorus of opprobrium such a move would inevitably attract, the decision was made to ask one of Scotland Yard's most experienced homicide detectives to establish whether more murders were linked to the arrival of the "super-gangs".Detective Superintendent John Sweeney of the Yard's specialist crime directorate, known for leading the Met's review into the death of cricket coach Bob Woolmer, is examining whether other shootings in the capital can be linked to the Bombacilar and Tottenham Boys.Kavanagh is no stranger to the lethal potential of north London's gunmen and the Turkish gangs' propensity for violence. He was the senior investigating officer in the 2002 murder of Alisan Dogan, 43, a cleaner who was caught in the crossfire and died from stab wounds when dozens of criminals staged a running battle in the busy shopping street of Green Lanes. The incident – which left four men with gunshot wounds – is thought to be connected to Turkish organised crime involving the Bombacilars.One theory behind the surge in shootings points to the power vacuum left in the wake of Ergun's imprisonment and, three years ago, the jailing of Abdullah Baybasin, who was one of the country's most feared criminals and who ruled his £10bn heroin empire with violence and intimidation. The Turkish 48-year-old, who lived in north London, commanded a gang of foot soldiers who racketeered, imported drugs and instilled fear into London's Turkish and Kurdish communities. His jailing for 22 years destabilised the gangs' natural order, creating a power struggle now filled by the dozens of young men affiliated to the Bombacilar and Tottenham Boys.Ergun and Kavanagh agree that the structure of the new hierarchy lacks the organisation and disciplined heroin dealing of Baybasin's network and, instead, is characterised by more chaotic, gung-ho individuals preoccupied with issues of respect as much as earning riches. Ergun said: "They're only little kids who don't respect anyone. In my opinion they are just idiots who think that selling a bit of brown [heroin] and having a gun means you're a gangster."Yet Ergun and Kavanagh disagree on one facet – drugs. The police commander believes that the supply of heroin has been replaced by cannabis dealing and extortion rackets against Turkish and Kurdish businesses.Ergun believes that the trade in heroin, traditionally controlled in London by Turkish organised criminals, remains as rife as ever. He said: "You've got the Kurds bringing it over, 10, 15, 20 kilos at a time, and these youngsters are buying it off them and selling it on the street, and that's where the war is coming from."It's just a price war or the usual stepping on one another's toes, poaching one another's customers. That's where all this fucking mix-up is."In Helmand province, where British troops continue their fight against the Taliban, the latest bulletins indicate that large quantities of heroin are still leaving the area and passing through Turkish suppliers and into north London.Steve Coates, deputy director of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) and an expert on the heroin trade for the past 20 years, confirmed that the Turkish gangs still "dominated" the heroin trade in the UK, controlling at least 50% of the country's supply.He said the latest intelligence had pinpointed key figures in Turkey as well as the traditional Turkish crime gangs of north London, though he would not name the Bombacilar and the Tottenham Boys.As Soca attempts to squeeze the heroin supply to the capital's Turkish gangs, Met officers in the Green Lanes area and Tottenham will supplement their armed patrols with visits to vulnerable shopkeepers, analysis of car numberplates and a fresh round of meetings with representatives of the Turkish and Kurdish communities.So far, the "proactive" CO19 patrols are credited with instigating an instant drop-off in activity from the Bombacilar and Tottenham Boys. "We have got them reeling because we are showing that the levels of violence are not being tolerated," said Kavanagh.The Met's hierarchy is watching the trials closely. Gun-related crime in London has risen year-on-year, with the number of gun crimes in September alone up from 230 last year to 300 this year, a 30% rise. It is hoped that the trials in Green Lanes, Tottenham and south of the river in Brixton, where street shootings have also spiked, will quash the trend.But the Yard's commanders equally know that any fatal error, any accidental shooting from a firearms unit which is still tarnished with the death of Jean Charles de Menezes at Stockwell tube station in 2005, means that the experiment will be over.Fact file: guns in BritainPunishment or "respect" shootings are a growing trend in London, with 72 reported cases of people being shot in the legs this year, more than double the 33 incidents reported in 2008.Between 1 April 1 and 30 September this year, there were more than 1,700 crimes committed involving guns in the capital. This represented a 17 per cent increase on the same period in 2008.Every year, between 50 and 60 people in England and Wales die as a result of shooting incidents, according to government figures.The weapons of choice for gangsters are the Mac-10 sub-machine pistol and the Russian-made 9mm Baikal pistol, which is smuggled into the UK from illegal weapons factories located in Lithuania. In the first seven months of 2009, 985 firearms were seized by police in London. Of these, 217 were "live-firing" weapons, and of these, 136 were handguns, 72 were shotguns and nine were sub-machine guns.The rest are believed to be "BB" pellet guns, air guns, replicas or other "non-live firing" guns.A 14-year-old boy was convicted of possessing a gun, a silencer and ammunition for the weapon earlier this year. The weapon was found in his bedroom in Lewisham, south-east London, when he was just 13.