William Hague delighted one-nation Tories at this year's party conference when he welcomed their plea for a return to the centre ground, where the next election will be won.The same moderate Tories were dismayed yesterday by Mr Hague's provocative speech on crime which raised fears that - with the Tories slumping in the polls - Mr Hague has decided to tack to the right in the run-up to the election. With no sign of a Tory victory, and indications that the party could be heading for a repeat of its 1997 defeat, they fear that Mr Hague has decided to tailor his message to appeal to core voters. The Conservative leader has mastered a technique for drumming up support among his party's hardcore supporters in a way that enrages moderate Tories who yearn for a return to the days of one-nation conservatism. The Tory leader's team of young staffers carefully monitors the outpourings of the rightwing press, usually on law and order, before picking on an issue which will guarantee favourable headlines in the Daily Mail and Daily Telegraph. Mr Hague's provocative intervention on crime yesterday was his most successful foray to the right since taking over as leader in 1997. He secured positive headlines in the Telegraph and the Mail on his criticisms of the Macpherson report which, thanks to the briefing overnight, glossed over the more balanced elements of the speech. Before Mr Hague had even stood up to make his speech at lunchtime, he had won plaudits from the Tories' "hang and flog 'em brigade". Moderate Tories, however, were exasperated. One former one-nation minister, who asked to remain anonymous, said he was dismayed by the speech. "There is a lot of truth in what William said, particularly his criticism of Macpherson for describing the Met as institutionally racist. But that message has been put across in such a strident way that it has obscured William's other message that he is concerned about black victims of crime. "It appears that the speech was directed at the Tory faithful. But we have to think about bringing into the fold people who do not identify with us and whose support is necessary to win the election." Aides of Mr Hague insisted last night that the speech was not designed to appeal solely to hardcore supporters on the right. They said the Tory leader believes he is speaking for the "mainstream majority" who fear crime and who are concerned by the fallout from Macpherson. Mr Hague believes his interventions on crime have paid off after the Tories' private polling showed the party marginally pulling ahead of Labour on the issue. Central office is determined to win back its lead on the touchstone issue which the Tories traditionally claimed as their own until the arrival of Tony Blair with his "tough on crime, tough on the causes" of crime. The Tory leader won banner headlines in April for his pledge to lock up asylum seekers and to "overhaul" the law on self-defence to protect the likes of the Norfolk farmer Tony Martin, who was jailed for the murder of a teenage intruder. His speeches gave the Tories a fillip in the local elections when the party clawed back many of the seats it lost in the slump of the early 1990s. On the same night, however, the Tories were defeated by the Liberal Democrats in the Romsey byelection - a true blue heartland - after Charles Kennedy took a principled stand against Mr Hague.