David Blunkett will hold talks this week on bringing a New York-style 'zero tolerance' crackdown to Britain's streets amid rising fears over violent crime.The Home Secretary will meet former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani to discuss how he tamed what was once the most dangerous city in the world.The move follows fears that Britain is descending into a US-style spiral of violence, following a string of aggressive 'carjackings' - culminating in the fatal stabbing of estate agent Tony Robinson earlier this month - and muggings which have terrified city dwellers. Londoners are now six times as likely to be robbed or assaulted as New Yorkers, while the rise in Yardie gang crime has been blamed for a spate of gun battles in broad daylight on the capital's streets - the most recent on Friday morning ended with the body of a man being dumped in a bullet-ridden car ouside a police station. Giuliani, who will also see Tony Blair and Ken Livingstone on a whirlwind trip to London this week, is no stranger to controversy: critics accused him of harsh gestures such as clearing the homeless off the streets of Manhattan - and of turning a blind eye to police brutality during the crackdown. However, he won the adoration even of liberal middle-class New Yorkers once crime levels began to drop. Blunkett is wary of the 'zero tolerance' label, which came to mean draconian penalties for the smallest offences. But he is interested in the argument of some US experts that Giuliani's 'broken windows' policy - officers pursuing every offence, even minor vandalism - has been misunderstood: that officers often dished out informal warnings rather than making arrests, but still sent out the message that anti-social and disruptive behaviour would no longer be tolerated. 'The Home Secretary is particularly interested in hearing about the crime reduction strategy that was followed in New York, in particular the "quality of life" crimes,' said a Home Office insider. 'Ben Bratton [the former NYPD chief] has been very clear about the fact that this is not zero tolerance. But there are specific methods used in New York that may be particularly applicable here. He's really talking to Giuliani about how he brought about that change.' So-called 'quality of life' crimes tackled in New York include begging, prostitution and disorderly behaviour. Blunkett is particularly interested in implications for anti-social behaviour orders - court orders used to restrain teenage tearaways, nuisance neighbours and prostitutes working residential areas. He is working on plans to make them more comprehensive, including ensuring they travel with offenders who move out of a certain area. He also wants to discuss Giuliani's tactics of devolving power to frontline precinct chiefs in New York - in return for extracting unprecedentedly detailed information about what was happening on their patches through the mayor's computer system. The sophisticated 'crime mapping' - pinpointing offences to the nearest apartment block - allowed the mayor's team to identify patterns and hotspots for crime, and use the information to grill police chiefs closely about progress. Giuliani ordered weekly reports of crime statistics to track the most minute changes. Home Office sources stressed the talks were at an early stage. However, police will be quick to point out that a crucial ingredient in Giuliani's success was that he put thousands more police on the streets. The Police Federation calculated last year that there is one New York police officer for every seven recorded crimes - compared to one officer to 41 recorded offences in London. Since then, British police manpower has risen and will hit record levels by spring. But the Police Federation, which is now polling its members concerning planned government reforms of their pay and conditions - supposed to liberate more officers for beat patrol - say more are needed. They may also argue that Giuliani backed police officers to the hilt to restore morale, while the Government has criticised British officers. The Giuliani visit follows an invitation from the Home Office to Bratton to address British officers last month on leadership.  gaby.hinsliff@observer.co.uk