Sarah Harman, a leading family lawyer, was last night found guilty of "conduct unbefitting a solicitor" for misleading the court and passing confidential court papers to her sister, Harriet Harman, then solicitor general.The solicitors' disciplinary tribunal suspended her from practice for 3 months from January 1 2006. She was found guilty of contempt of court in a high court judgment last year, and ordered to pay £25,000 costs personally in the case of the client whose papers she disclosed. She also resigned as a recorder, a part-time judge.The papers related to, but did not disclose the identity of, a client who had had her daughter taken into care after a doctor diagnosed Munchausen syndrome by proxy, a rare form of child abuse in which parents make their children ill to gain attention.Following the case of Angela Cannings, whose convictions for killing her sons were quashed, there were concerns about possible miscarriages of justice in the family courts. Sarah Harman hoped her client's case could be reviewed in a trawl through family cases expected to be launched by the then minister for children, Margaret Hodge. The solicitor applied to the high court for permission to put anonymised confidential documents about the case in the public domain. But she omitted to tell the judge she had already passed the anonymised judgment in the case to her sister, who sent it to Mrs Hodge, and sent case summaries to her client's MP and several journalists.Sarah Harman did not admit the disclosures fully until after the second of two court hearings, the tribunal heard, even though she had offered the judge an "unreserved apology", implying that she had told the court about all her disclosures when she had not.Her barrister, Mr James Badenoch, QC, told the hearing: "It was an extraordinary aberration from a woman who has dedicated her life to honest practice." He said she had concentrated on the "bigger picture" and neglected the detail. The tribunal chairman, Roger Wolfe, said: "We accept there has been and will be no harm to the the public interest. We are concerned about the effect of the respondent's conduct on the reputation of the profession."Harriet Harman, now a minister in the Department for Constitutional Affairs, told the tribunal her sister had been "very distressed and anxious" at the time because she had been diagnosed with malignant melanoma and had to have two operations. Sarah Harman said: 'I am very disappointed to be prevented from practising and serving my clients for three months, but relieved not to have been struck off." Last month the law was changed to allow anonymised papers from children's cases to be released to MPs.