As a London magistrate, the prospect of defendants being jailed for non-appearance at court (Threat of jail to cut court delays, October 5), particularly in relation to less serious offences, is of deep concern. Most delays, I've experienced, seem to be caused by hold-ups in the process, such as the prosecution failing to serve necessary documents or by non-attendance of witnesses, including police officers (presumably delays that won't attract custody?).Trials not going ahead is a waste of resources, people's time, and can be deeply frustrating, but using the stick of penalties fails to address the reasons why delay occurs. While most delays are not due to the defendant, to tackle those that are we need to confront the causes of non-attendance. Few defendants, in my experience, are interested in "cocking a snook" at the legal system whatever the home secretary thinks. On the contrary, family crises, domestic and emotional upheaval, competing demands, depression or demoralisation seem more prevalent causes. It is easy to demand people put attendance at court before their other priorities, but greater understanding of why defendants sometimes don't may help tackle not only non-appearance but why people offend in the first place. Prof Davina Cooper Law department, Keele University · I am a defence lawer. Before he reinvents the wheel, can someone please direct David Blunkett's attention to section 6 (1) of the Bail Act, 1976: "If a person who has been released on bail in criminal proceedings fails without reasonable cause to surrender to custody he shall be guilty of an offence." The maximum penalty, strangely, is that suggested in your article, namely, three months' imprisonment. While they are at it, can they also remind him that the vast majority of adjournments are requested by the prosecution, not the defence and that, contrary to the suggestion in the article, ("it is never used") defendants are regularly sentenced to imprisonment for failing to appear at court. Brian Ferris Tunbridge Wells