March 21Amanda "Milly" Dowler vanishes while walking home in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey. The 13-year-old leaves Heathside school in Weybridge and catches a train, then visits a cafe at Walton-on-Thames railway station with a friend. She calls her father on a friend's mobile at 3.47pm and sets off towards her house 18 minutes later. She never arrives.March 23 Her parents, Robert and Sally Dowler, make an emotional plea for their daughter to return home. Police launch a massive hunt involving 50 officers and dogs as fears grow for her safety.March 24 A body is found on the railway line at nearby Hersham railway station but later turns out to be that of a man who has committed suicide.March 26 The BBC films a reconstruction of her last known movements for Crimewatch. Superintendent Alan Sharp stresses that officers have not yet given up hope of finding her and believe she could still have run away.March 27Milly's parents admit their daughter may have been abducted.March 29Will Young, the Pop Idol competition winner, is one of several celebrities to make a televised appeal for Milly to get in touch.March 30Police say it is more likely Milly has run away with someone rather than being abducted as any struggle would have been seen by passers-by or motorists.April 2A body is found in the River Thames, just a mile from where the teenager vanished. It is later identified as that of a 73-year-old woman who disappeared in March last year. May 16-17A 36-year-old man is arrested in Chertsey, about three miles from the family home, in connection with Milly's disappearance. He is released without charge.June 13A 52-year-old Surrey man is arrested in connection with Milly's disappearance. He is later released without charge.July 12CCTV footage is sent to the US for examination by the FBI.July 29-30Police arrest a 47-year-old man in connection with the schoolgirl's disappearance. He is released on police bail.September 12The FBI believe film from the CCTV camera dazzled by sunlight reveals the image of a figure standing near a dark coloured saloon. The image is from a time when it is believed Milly disappeared near the station. Police appeal for the driver of the car to come forward September 19A body is found in woodland 25 miles from where Milly was last seen. Forensic offers and the head of the investigation into the teenager's disappearance attempt to identify it. Sally Dowler says she believes her daughter was murdered.September 20 Police say they believe the body found in woodlands is Milly's.