The deputy headmaster Sîon Jenkins was "stunned" when a young policeman told him his foster daughter Billie-Jo was dead, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.PC Darren Bruce said he had led Mr Jenkins from the hallway into the living room of the family house in Hastings, East Sussex, where the 13-year-old was attacked as she painted patio doors. PC Bruce said: "I sat him down and said, 'I am sorry, Billie-Jo has died.' "He appeared stunned. I put my hand on his shoulder. He put his head down on his hands." The constable said he had been a police officer for 15 months before the killing in February 1997 and had been shocked by the crime. "It was horrific. I had never seen anything like it," he said. He and another officer had been on mobile patrol when they were diverted to the house in Lower Park Road. Mr Jenkins, 47, of Aberystwyth, mid Wales, denies murdering Billie-Jo, who was battered over the head at least five times with an iron tent peg. He was convicted of the murder in 1998 and sentenced to life. He was bailed after an appeal last year and is being retried. PC Bruce said Mr Jenkins had told him he had not gone into the house between leaving to pick up one of his daughters and going to a DIY store. The court has been told that he later allegedly said to other officers that he had gone in before driving off. Christopher Sallon QC, defending, suggested that Mr Jenkins had never said he had not gone in and it was "what is known in old-fashioned police parlance as a 'verbal'". When the officer said he did not know what that meant, Mr Sallon told him he was probably too young, and told him it meant attributing incriminating words to someone. PC Bruce said he had written down what he was told by Mr Jenkins and did not realise until two weeks ago that there was a discrepancy. Asked why he had not made a note of it at the time, he replied: "I didn't think it would be appropriate to make notes while I was telling someone his daughter was dead." The trial was adjourned to Wednesday.