Enter a new football season, this time to the accompaniment of noises off with which the game was once depressingly familiar: police sirens, breaking glass and politicians bewailing a breakdown in law and order. In sharp contrast to the worst of the hooliganism of the 70s and 80s football is an innocent bystander, yet some fixtures have been called off, including an England match at Wembley, and the entire opening Premier League programme was for a time in doubt.Even when the fans were running riot the idea of stopping everybody playing was never a serious option. That would have meant the hooligans had won, or so the argument went. This weekend's matches have come under threat because the policing of games could weaken the numbers of officers needed for more urgent constabulary duty elsewhere.It is a bizarre situation. All-seated English football stadiums, their crowds controlled by ever more sophisticated police surveillance techniques, have never been safer. Yet, at the moment, they are oases of security compared to what has been happening on the streets,Thirty or 40 years ago football hooligans were principally concerned with inflicting bodily harm on each other. Looting hardly came into it, although there was a period when the shopkeepers in Luton whose premises lined the route between the railway station and Kenilworth Road could not get insurance because of the frequency with which their windows were smashed on match days. Nor were the fans much inclined to set fire to things, even if the Chelsea mob did torch a train.Looking back it is a wonder football did continue given the violent excesses that accompanied it. In 1973 the season began with trouble at Huddersfield, Hereford and York, where fighting on the terraces spilled on to the pitch. Len Shipman, then president of the Football League, wanted to bring back the birch: "Ruthless action is imperative. Fines will not stop the violence." At the start of 1974-75 there were 135 arrests after a riot in Bristol. On the opening day a year later Brian Clough ran on to the pitch at Nottingham Forest to order off invading Plymouth fans. Football kicked off in 1976 with spectators trying to set a stand at Ipswich alight … and so it went on.Attendances plummeted to a point at which, on the first day of the 1981-82 season, the biggest gate was at Maine Road where a mere 36,187 turned up to watch Manchester City beat West Bromwich Albion. It took the deaths of 96 Liverpool fans in the 1989 Hillsborough disaster (which was not hooligan-related), followed by the Taylor Report on ground safety, to bring about the comfort and security in which top-class football is watched today. Once the Premier League had been established and the stadiums rebuilt, violence at matches became a rarity, partly because the rougher element had been priced out.Cancelling the whole football programme this weekend would have been both melodramatic and unnecessary. Far better to let the police make decisions on a match-by-match basis, as they have done.After all it is not as if the nation is about to embark on World War Three. When war was declared in September 1939 the season had just begun – Blackpool led the league after three games – and came to an abrupt halt with the ban on the assembly of crowds for fear of German bombing. Yet within a fortnight friendlies were being allowed and once travel restrictions were eased league football was resumed after a fashion.Towards the end of 1973 industrial action in the power industry led to an energy crisis that forced the government to ban floodlights. Wolves wanted to suspend the league programme but did not get any support and the game pressed on in murky daylight.The Football Association did ask the Home Office for special permission to play games on Sundays, the Sunday Observance Act notwithstanding, arguing that this would ease the pressure on electricity supplies during the three-day week. Arsenal's Bob Wall protested that "playing football and making profits on a Sunday is wrong. We will not disturb the peace and the neighbourhood of Highbury on that day." The Home Office agreed.Nevertheless, four FA Cup ties were played on the Sabbath at the beginning of 1974 and the preservation of Ford Super Sunday will have eased the nation's fears – even if some of the viewers will be watching on looted tellies.