A wealthy husband and wife were bludgeoned and shot by two brothers at their remote Cornish garage during a horrific bungled robbery, a jury heard yesterday.Convicted robbers Robert and Lee Firkins raided the business and home of Graham and Carol Fisher as the pair settled down to have dinner in front of the television, it was alleged. They tried to call the police but misdialled and were brutally killed, each being shot three times, the court was told.Mrs Fisher, 53, managed to get to the porch after her left hand was almost shot away by a sawn-off shotgun. But she was shot again in the back and finally brought down by a third shot on the garden path. She was then bludgeoned with a blunt instrument, possibly a hammer.Mr Fisher, 60, was shot in the hand, stomach and chest and battered to death, perhaps with a sledgehammer, Exeter crown court heard. When police arrived they found the Fishers' bungalow, next to their business, Perch Garage, near Wadebridge in north Cornwall, had been ransacked and papers, including old cheques, were strewn over Mr Fisher's body. However, £2,000 in cash was left in the safe.Robert Firkins, 32, and Lee, 31, who are from Essex but were living at Weston-super-Mare in Somerset at the time of the crime on bonfire night 2003, deny murder. The jury was taken through a series of serious offences the brothers have admitted committing soon after the Fishers were murdered.On December 18 2003, they robbed a B&Q store in Taunton, Somerset, stealing £2,583 in money and vouchers but dropping £1,518 of it outside. The next day Lee Firkins fired a shotgun at a wall during a robbery at a petrol station about 20 miles from the Fishers' garage. On December 20, Lee and Robert Firkins slashed a man's face before squirting him in the eyes with ammonia, binding him with tape and dumping him on downland in Cornwall.The jury also heard that two sawn-off shotguns were found buried on a beach at Weston-super-Mare and had been linked to the brothers. William Boyce QC, prosecuting, suggested the brothers' convictions showed they had the "propensity" to use "gratuitous violence".For the defence, Mukul Chawla QC said the attack was not a speculative robbery but appeared to be planned and personal. The killers had searched the safe and bedroom but there was no evidence any money had been stolen."The target of the robbery seems to have been something entirely different," he said.The case continues.