If there is a local authority in the UK with a worse public image for its child protection efforts than Haringey in north London – widely castigated over the Baby Peter case – it is almost certainly Doncaster.In March – shortly before the brutal attack on two young boys by a pair of brothers aged 11 and 10 who were in the care of the council in South Yorkshire – the local children's services department was taken over by a senior management team appointed by central government.The children's minister, Ed Balls, acted after internal council reports that were followed up by his own department found serious failings in child protection.Even before the attack, which happened in Edlington on the edge of Doncaster in April, the council had launched serious case reviews into the deaths of seven children in the area during a five-year period. Two of them were murdered by their fathers. Four were less than a year old.Reviews into three of the deaths have been published so far, and all were youngsters who had been abused or neglected before their death.In each of the cases it was found that social workers missed chances to intervene.The most notorious case, that of Amy Howson, had echoes of the abuse suffered by Baby Peter, but attracted much less attention.Amy, aged 16 months, was already malnourished when her father placed her over his knee and snapped her spine in December 2007. James Howson, then 25, was jailed for life for murder last year. Amy's mother, 26-year-old Tina Hunt, was jailed for child cruelty.Baby Peter, later named as Peter Connolly, was 17 months old when he died in August 2007 after suffering more than 50 injuries, including a broken back. His mother and her partner were jailed in May this year.The background to the Doncaster case – in which the brothers, who cannot be named for legal reasons, have now pleaded guilty to grievous bodily harm with intent – has resulted in another review. Their victims, aged nine and 11, were robbed, tortured and sexually assaulted.The brothers had been with foster parents in Edlington for several weeks at the time of the attack and were well known to the police and education service. Both had been expelled from school.The council will have to explain why the two were not placed in a more secure form of care given claims of their previous violence. At the time of the attack, one was under a supervision order after he was convicted of battery. The other was on bail charged with actual bodily harm and burglary.People living near them said they had appealed to the council and police for help to deal with vandalism and abuse by the brothers. A friend of the boys' mother said she had pleaded with social workers for help controlling her sons.Late last year, Ofsted was highly critical of children's services in Doncaster, labelling them among the worst in the country. Balls said he was "particularly concerned" about the quality of help for children in the town.Local anger over such concerns led the town's independent mayor, Martin Winter, to opt against standing for re-election in May this year.