Police said today that more than £53m was stolen during the raid on a security depot in Tonbridge last week, confirming it as the biggest robbery to have ever taken place in Britain.The assistant constable of Kent police, Adrian Leppard, said another five people had been arrested in more than 10 operations in the hunt for the thieves behind last week's robbery.Four of the arrests were as a result of armed operations including one arrest at Tankerton, near Whitstable, where police shot the tyres of a blue BMW. Another two men were arrested in Greenwich, south-east London. One of the five has since been released on police bail.Kent police said the total sum stolen when armed robbers kidnapped the depot manager and his family and tied up 14 workers at the Securitas site was £53,116,760.Speaking outside police headquarters in Maidstone, Mr Leppard said officers were "following a number of significant lines of inquiry" and that he remained "confident that we will catch those responsible".He renewed his appeal for help in finding a white Renault Midlum lorry used in the raid and possibly also to dump the cages which carried the bank notes. Mr Leppard also thanked the public for their help and said a hotline set up after the robbery had received more than 1,300 calls.Police want to hear from people who might have seen 14 cages, used to store the new and used bank notes, being dumped in a field in Detling, near Maidstone at around 9.30am on Wednesday.Officers reportedly recovered a blue van and a forklift truck close to the spot where the metal cages were abandoned, but police could not confirm that two further vehicles had been seized.The gang, said to be six-strong and operating at the top level of organised crime, is thought to have escaped with around £50m. An audit of the missing cash is underway but the final figure is unlikely to be known until tomorrow.One of the security workers who was at the Securitas depot when the gang burst inside, has spoken of his ordeal.Nduniso Minisa, 24, told the Daily Mirror he was tied up at gunpoint and jammed into a small storage cage with his fellow workers."I thought they were going to shoot me, no question about it," he said. "I remember that I was splitting a bundle of money when a man came in pointing a gun at us. He shouted at us to put our hands up. I was just completely amazed. This is not something you believe could happen."He forced me at gunpoint to the central meeting place in the building. It was like we were being rounded up. Everyone was really frightened, not knowing what he was going to do next."Neighbours of the house raided in Southborough also spoke of the "incredibly frightening" moment that armed police stormed the property, which they said was the home of a professional kick boxer.Robert Neve, 34, said of his neighbour: "He is a really massive guy, not that tall but incredibly stocky. We haven't seen him since midweek."On Friday, £1.3m was found in the back of a white Transit van left at the Ashford International Hotel, along with guns, balaclavas and flak jackets.The gang kidnapped the depot manager Colin Dixon, 51, and held his wife Lynn, 45, and son Craig hostage during the raid. Mr Dixon has described it as "the worst night of my life".There have now been 11 confirmed arrests in connection with the investigation. The initial six people arrested - two women, aged 31 and 41, and four men, aged 29, 55, 33 and 49 - have all been released on bail.Five significant vehicles linked to the raid have already been discovered: a Volvo used to kidnap Mr Dixon, a red Vauxhall Vectra found alongside it, the white Transit van, Mr Dixon's Nissan Almera and a red van painted to look like a Parcelforce vehicle used to kidnap Mrs Dixon and her son.