'I'm not free,' says Winston Silcott. 'I might be standing here posing for your photographer. But in the minds of so many, the association just goes on - Winston Silcott and Keith Blakelock.' He twists the brim of his baseball cap against the winter sun, then unexpectedly smiles. 'An ordeal like mine either makes you or breaks you. They tried to crush me, but I wasn't having it. Yet sometimes I chuckle to myself. There's just me and this huge system, and over the years, I've got it in disarray.'It is 17 years since Silcott, now 44, sat with five other men in the dock at the Old Bailey accused of murdering PC Blakelock, hacked with machetes and stabbed with knives in the riot on the Broadwater Farm estate in Tottenham, north London, on 6 October 1985. Once he had entered his plea of 'not guilty', Silcott did not speak, but he dominated the two-month trial that followed. Reporters who covered the case thought we saw a tall, bearded, well-built Afro-Caribbean man who always dressed immaculately. The police and prosecution urged us to believe we were looking at a monster, the ringleader of a savage mob, which had planned to sever Blakelock's head and mount it on a pole, like a medieval trophy. Atavistic racial imagery lay close to the surface. According to statements taken by detectives, Silcott had brandished a machete, dripping with blood, and proclaimed to cheers: 'This is bullman's blood.' He had, they claimed, thrust a sword into the hands of a 13-year-old white boy, Jason Hill, and forced him, on pain of death, to slash Blakelock's prostrate form to 'make my mark' and then told him: 'You cool, man.' In the third week of March 1987, after two months of evidence and three days' deliberation, the jury returned to court. Silcott, Engin Raghip and Mark Braithwaite, known from that day on as the Tottenham Three, were pronounced guilty. Silcott, said the judge, must serve at least 30 years: he was 'a very vicious and evil man'. This, in the eyes of large parts of the media and police service, is what he remains. The Court of Appeal may have quashed Silcott's conviction less than five years later, in November 1991. But reports and off-the-record briefings by police officers continue to insinuate that does not mean he was innocent. Less than a month after Silcott's release from prison last October, where he served 18 years for a different murder - of the boxer and gangster Tony Smith, for which he had been on bail at the time of the Tottenham riot - the police announced a new investigation into the Blakelock killing. Police sources hinted that Silcott, thanks to advances in forensic technology and the abolition of the 'double jeopardy' rule, might find himself charged again. 'The solicitor for Winston Silcott, first convicted and then acquitted of the [Blakelock] murder, says his client has nothing to fear,' Richard Littlejohn wrote in the Sun. 'Then we can be sure Mr Silcott will co-operate fully with the new investigation.' The Tottenham Three's successful appeal, it was implied, had been down to dubious technicalities. The Telegraph said it rested on 'doubts about the integrity of police notes of potentially incriminatory comments he had allegedly made in an interview'. The Court of Appeal had not found him innocent, reports said, merely quashed his conviction as 'unsafe'. Until today, Silcott has maintained his public silence. Now, as he fights to clear his name of the Smith murder, too, citing evidence that he acted in self-defence, he speaks publicly for the first time about the night of the riot and all that has happened thereafter. 'They created something out of nothing: Winston Silcott, the monster, the beast of Broadwater Farm. And still they won't let this creation lie down and die. The system conspires to uphold itself. They should have done things properly in the first place, but they still don't want to take any blame. They'd rather put my name back in the firing line.' One of the many differences between black and white Britons is their response to Winston Silcott. White people, or at least those who accept Silcott's ongoing characterisation by the tabloids, tend to place him in the demons' gallery reserved for criminals such as Myra Hindley or Frederick West. But on the streets of north London, where we sat having lunch in a pavement restaurant last summer while Silcott was on leave from an open prison, his treatment from African-Caribbeans is that of a returning hero. In the course of a two-hour meal, I lost count of the times that people stopped to greet him and shake his hand - not just members of his own generation, but youths, who may not have been born at the time of the Tottenham riot. Since his release, Silcott has been deluged by invitations to social events and political meetings, by black communities the length and breadth of Britain. 'The reason is simply that he survived,' says Stafford Scott, Silcott's closest friend from early childhood. 'The system, the police, the courts and the media tried to bury him, but just by maintaining his dignity and sanity, he defeated it. And now, in a way he's at peace: he's not bitter, he's not out for revenge. Many of us could have ended up in that situation. Many of us have also been victims of racism, and so his ordeal speaks to our experience. At the same time, we don't think we could have handled it half as well as he has, and that's why he gets so much admiration and respect.' Silcott, whose parents were devout Seventh Day Adventists from Montserrat, grew up in Haringey, north London, experiencing the everyday racism of the education and criminal justice systems. At 13, he had saved his pocket money to buy his mother perfume for her birthday. Seeing the bottle on his desk, a teacher accused him of stealing it and telephoned the nearby pharmacy. Luckily, someone there remembered the slim black boy who had bought scent earlier that day. A year later, Silcott was arrested for failing to display a bicycle lamp; a few months after that, he left school without qualifications for an apprenticeship making cabinets, a job that ended after 15 months when the foreman wrongly accused him of stealing canteen food. In 1982, Lord Scarman's report on the Brixton riots was the first official recognition of what has come to be called institutionalised racism, especially in the police: 'I do not doubt harassment does occur... many believe that the police routinely abuse their powers.' The cost, said Scarman, was alienation and thwarted lives: 'The damage done by even the occasional display of racial prejudice is incalculable.' He could have been describing Silcott's teens and early twenties, when he and his friends were repeatedly harassed, often under the old 'sus' law, which criminalised a generation by allowing the police to arrest anyone they thought was acting suspiciously, even if they had committed no crime. Court two at the Old Bailey, and a trial for the murder of a well-regarded community policeman, felt like the logical culmination of this process. As the hearing went on, I became increasingly convinced that Silcott and his co-defendants were innocent and the case against them was dangerously flawed. American historian David Blight shows in his book, Race and Reunion, how the distorted way that the US Civil War came to be remembered, especially in the South, affected subsequent events. Within a few decades, slavery and racism were airbrushed out of the story, allowing the war to be seen as a tragic fraternal quarrel, now healed. Possibly America could not deal with the scale of its wounds in any other way, but in such circumstances, slavery's descendants - lynching and segregation - flourished without hindrance. Public memory is being falsified too over the murder at Broadwater Farm, although Silcott and the wounds caused by confrontational policing of black communities, are very much alive. We meet at the office of the Freedom Ark, a social-work project attached to a church less than a mile from Broadwater Farm. Next month, a BBC documentary will re-examine Silcott's story. The producers, he says, have told him they want to explode his demonic persona and show him as a human being. He says he hopes it will do some good. Yet, for a second, he gives me a look of desperation. 'This isn't about my personality. I just want people to know the facts.' The evidence adduced by the Blakelock prosecutor, Roy Amlot QC, was as weak as the allegations were lurid. There were no eyewitnesses to the killing and no forensic evidence. Neither Silcott nor his co-defendants appeared in any of the 1,000 police photographs of the riot. The case rested on the veracity of confessions taken by detectives who made 368 separate arrests and terrified a community whose help they should have tried to enlist. All the nightmarish, ritualistic accounts of the killing came from juveniles, some with severe learning difficulties, who were held for days without access to their parents or solicitors. By the time the trial reached its halfway mark, the judge, Mr Justice Hodgson, said the case was giving him 'sleepless nights'. For example, Jason Hill, the boy who claimed Silcott forced him to 'make his mark', had confessed only after three days spent naked except for a blanket. Hill's story 'screamed fantasy,' said the the judge. He directed that Hill and two fellow juveniles, Mark Pennant and Mark Lambie, be freed. The only evidence left against Silcott was the record of his fifth police interview, with its allegedly incriminating admissions. This was before police interviews were taped, so the only guarantee of the accuracy of Silcott's handwritten interrogation record was the integrity, or otherwise, of the officers involved - the leader of the investigation, Detective Chief Superintendent Graham Melvin of Scotland Yard's Serious Crimes Squad, and his deputy, Detective Chief Inspector Maxwell Dingle. The Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Kenneth Newman, was phoning Melvin daily for reports on his progress. Academic studies of police 'verbals' - bogus statements attributed to suspects - have found that detectives, rather than manufacturing an outright admission ('It's a fair cop, guv'), will often fabricate denials which are themselves incriminating. Having stayed silent for three days, Melvin and Dingle claimed Silcott's dam suddenly burst when they asked whether he had attacked Blakelock with a machete and forced others to cut him. 'Who told you that?' their record had Silcott saying, 'They're only kids. No one's going to believe them... you ain't got enough evidence. Those kids will never go to court. You wait and see. No one else will talk to you. You can't keep me away from them... they won't give evidence against me.' The officers' record even included stage directions: 'Silcott,' they claimed, 'looked out of the window, stood up, went back to his chair and then said, "You cunts".' He then supposedly leaned back in his chair and said: 'Jesus, Jesus.' This prompted Amlot to make a novel addition to the language of English criminal law. Here, he told the jury, Silcott had adopted a 'guilty posture'. Four years after the trial, a new technique - electrostatic document analysis, or Esda - was transforming the criminal justice system by exposing fabricated police interrogation records. It works on the principle that when someone writes on a sheet of paper in a numbered pad, such as a police interview book, the tiny dents made by a pen on the first sheet will show up on the sheet below. Esda makes these impressions visible,and in an accurate record, where no extra sheets have been inserted, the dents on page one will show up on page two, those on page two on page three and so on. Those of us who believed in Silcott's innocence - his family, his solicitor, Andrew Hall (now a QC) and myself - had agonising discussions. What if Esda showed the record was accurate? In the end, there seemed to be no choice: he had already lost his first appeal and Esda appeared his only chance. In fact, he hit the jackpot. As Robert Radley, the scientist who conducted the tests, later told the Court of Appeal, the pages containing the damaging admissions and stage directions had been inserted some time after the rest of the notes - all supposedly made contemporaneously - were written. A second scientist repeated the tests: he not only confirmed them, but found that the paper on which the admissions were written had come from a different batch. To his credit, Amlot recognised that this was no technicality. 'We fully accept the position,' he told the court; the tests meant, said lawyer Michael Mansfield in court, that Melvin and Dingle had lied. The Crown, Amlot said, could no longer contest the appeal, and he accepted that even without Esda tests of their own, the disputed confessions by Silcott's co-defendants could no longer be believed. If Melvin had fabricated his, the most important interview, the entire investigation and the convictions it produced had to be seen as 'contaminated'. The Court of Appeal made it clear that Melvin and Dingle were not called to give evidence. Until this case, the Court of Appeal had never apologised to any victim of a miscarriage of justice. This time, Lord Justice Farquharson said: 'In allowing these appeals, we wish to express our profound regret that they have suffered as a result of the shortcomings of the criminal process. No system of trials is proof against perjury, but this will be little comfort to its victims.' Silcott says: 'You don't read this in the papers now. The facts don't get printed. Reporters who had nothing to do with the case ask whether there's any possibility I might be tried for the Blakelock murder all over again. But one thing I do know: if the new investigation is going to use those old statements from 1985 in any way at all, it's going to be crap, because all they're going to do is recycle the same old lies.' For 17 years, Silcott could only watch from the sidelines. His previous conviction for the Smith murder compelled his lawyers to advise him he could not go into the witness box. 'I wanted to give evidence, tell the court I never said those things, but my solicitor said, "You've already been convicted of murder. And if you now call those officers liars, tell the jury that they fabricated your interview, then the judge is going to let the prosecution reveal you are already serving life for murder. You won't have a chance." It was so frustrating, to sit there day after day and listen to Melvin and Dingle and say nothing. 'The first time I ever saw Engin Raghip, Jason Hill, Mark Pennant and all those guys was when we appeared on remand at Highbury magistrates' court. I wasn't in the same age group as Jason Hill or Mark Pennant: they were 13 and I was 26. I would never have recognised them. Any one who knew me could have told the police I never went around with people younger than me. But because the police had to make their story, they made me the target when they were interrogating the kids, and put them under every kind of pressure to make them say that I was the person who led the killing.' In the weeks after Blakelock's murder, the Metropolitan Police came close to mutiny, with Commissioner Newman shouted down at meetings with his officers, some of whom called on him to resign. As with many miscarriages of justice, this was a case where the police had to get results. 'Over the years I've often asked, "Why me?"' says Silcott. 'Sure I'd had my share of beefs with the cops, but so did a lot of black guys in the Eighties. The answer is that they knew they could get away with it. It was very easy for them to make me a target, much easier than it would have been with anyone else, because I was out on bail for murder. They knew they could fabricate anything they liked because the other murder case would come into the arena. That was the reason they could be so bold and so brazen.' Another crucial stage in the formation in the false public memory of the Blakelock murder case came in 1994, when Melvin and Dingle stood trial, accused of perjury and perverting the course of justice. For reasons which have never been explained, the prosecution did not call Silcott as a witness, so denying him the chance to tell the jury that he had not uttered the words in his interview record. More surprisingly, the jury was allowed to hear a series of lurid, gory police statements repeating the claim that Silcott had been the murder ringleader. Their authors, the court was told, would have appeared in person, but had not done so 'through fear'. The truth was different. All the most damaging allegations came from a familiar source - the statements taken by Melvin's team in 1985. Jason Hill's ritualistic story, dismissed as fantasy by the Blakelock trial judge, was again touted as fact. And was fear the real reason that he chose not to repeat it in Melvin's defence? Hill told me: 'The first I knew they were going to use my statement was when it suddenly flashed up on the telly. It is disgraceful... I never was a witness to the killing and I'm not one now.' Melvin and Dingle were acquitted and Melvin has always insisted that the fifth interview was an accurately recorded contemporaneous note. So where was Silcott when Blakelock was killed? The answer is on Broadwater Farm - not rioting, but lying low in a flat, desperate to avoid further trouble. As the riot started at about 7pm, Silcott says he was being dropped at Tottenham police station by a former girlfriend to sign for his bail. The station's signing-in book should corroborate this, but it has disappeared. 'I left the police station at about 7.15,' he says. 'I got back into the car and my girlfriend drove me to the Farm, where I lived and had my greengrocer's shop. I could see a lot of people running about, wearing masks and everything. I already suspected something was up because when I left the police station there were untold police cars and vans parked in front of the nick. I said we had to get over to Tangmere [the block near which Blakelock was killed] to protect my shop. 'And look, I'm on bail for a murder. I know I'm stupid, but I'm not that stupid. There's helicopters, police photographers everywhere. All I could think about was that I didn't want to lose my bail. I saw a young guy with a scaffolding pole and he made as if he was going to throw it through the window of my shop. I stopped him. Then I saw Pam, a friend of mine. She said, "You'd better come up. You know the police don't like you."' Silcott spent the rest of the night in the flat, where Pam lived with her sister. Others came and went, but much of the time he dozed. Next morning, he returned to his shop on the Tangmere 'deck'. Blakelock had been murdered nearby. A photograph taken early that day shows Silcott dressed in a mackintosh, talking quietly to two PCs. 'They were giving out leaflets appealing for information about the officer's death. I was asking them if they would mind moving a little from the doorway, because they were blocking it and might intimidate customers.' As the Smith case prevented Silcott from challenging the material that convicted him, his continued association with the Blakelock killing kept him in prison for six years past his recommended tariff of 12 years. Every time he inched towards release, saturation media coverage set him back. 'And if I had been guilty of murdering Smith, I'd have jumped through all the hoops to get out at the earliest opportunity,' he says. 'But I wouldn't do anger management and all these foolish courses. If I had an anger problem, the whole country had an anger problem. No one in their right mind is just going to stand there and let someone attack and stab them.' Eleven years ago, his lawyers submitted a petition to the then Home Secretary, Michael Howard, arguing that his claim of self-defence should be referred to the Court of Appeal. This included details of threats which Smith had made in the weeks before his death to kill Silcott for defending a friend who had fallen foul of his gang, the Yankee Posse; statements from witnesses at the party where Smith died, who said he drew a knife and attacked Silcott without provocation; and crucial testimony from a police officer, Detective Sergeant Douglas Hill, which surprisingly had not been disclosed by the Crown when Silcott first stood trial. Hill said the doorman at the party told him: 'Between you and me, the dead guy caused it all. He came in with a knife and cut Sticks [Silcott] and Sticks defended himself. Smith brought it all on himself.' I traced the doorman, who repeated this story. Finally, there was evidence from Silcott's own body: a thin brown line on the bridge of his nose, the faded scar left by a knife wound, inflicted, he says, by Smith. Howard refused that petition and Silcott knows clearing his name will be no easier now. He went into prison a young man and has emerged in middle age. He hopes to have his conviction for murder quashed before his parents die. 'My family has got a lot older in the time I've been in prison. They're not the same people I left. This thing has destroyed a load of people's lives.' He looks hard for something good to come from his derailed life. 'I want to use my experience to deter young people from getting involved with crime and drugs. There have been big changes since I was last on the street. Today, they've all got guns. If it [the riot] happened again now, it would be mayhem.'