What's to be done about the young rioters, looters, muggers and fire-raisers? The Sunday newspapers, and their columnists, have been offering their solutions.Some are not in the least surprising. For example, Peter Hitchens, in the Mail on Sunday, argues that society's deep-seated problems have been caused by the policies of "elite liberal Londoners" and "well-off and influential Left-wingers". These groups evidently include the prime minister, because Hitchens concentrates his fire on David Cameron for failing to heed his advice on what should be done:"Say to him that naughty children should be smacked at home and caned in school, that the police (and responsible adults) should be free to wallop louts and vandals caught in the act, that the police should return to preventive foot patrols, that prisons should be austere places of hard work, plain food and discipline without TV sets or semi-licit drugs, and that wrongdoers should be sent to them when they first take to crime, not when they are already habitual crooks, and he will throw up his well-tailored arms in horror at your barbarity.Say to him that divorce should be made very difficult and that the state should be energetically in favour of stable, married families with fathers (and cease forthwith to subsidise families without fathers) and he will smirk patronisingly and regard you as a pitiable lunatic.Say to him that mass immigration should be stopped and reversed, and that those who refuse any of the huge number of jobs which are then available should be denied benefits of any kind, and he will gibber in shock."His piece appears opposite an article by Suzanne Moore in which she pours scorn on much of Hitchens's concerns:"The banal political dismissal of the riots as nothing more than 'pure criminality' is criminally stupid...It's the feral underclass spurred on somehow by the liberal metropolitan elite, say the Right, while failing to recognise that the liberal intelligentsia has little or no connection with the underclass...The usual causes, from single parenthood to multiculturalism, have been rolled out in a smug-fest by people who have no idea of the lives many lead."She concludes: "No single solution can come from Right or Left. Successive governments have made this mess and now we are all in this together. The truth is that what we used to call civic or public society needs not just care but actual rehab."She offers no clue as to how rehab may occur, but the Sunday Express has a simple (ie, simplistic) answer. The paper, which is engaged in a "crusade" to "reclaim our streets", splashes on the results of an "exclusive poll" in which people were asked whether Britain should reintroduce national service. Result - 72% in favour.However, the paper's leading article believes that the young conscripts should not join the fighting services but should learn military discipline from ex-servicemen while carrying out "community and social work projects."The Observer's editorial says "the best route to avoiding repetitions of last week's scenes lies in a new ethic of responsibility, one that is needed 'from top to bottom in our society.'" By which it apparently means that measures must be taken to reduce the yawning gap between the "feral elite" at the top and the "feral rats" at the bottom.Similarly, the Independent on Sunday's editorial believes the central task is to re-unite "the nation around the principle of responsibility", endorsing Labour leader Ed Miliband's call for "an end to a take-what-you-can culture that needs to change from the benefits office to the boardroom".But how? In practical terms, what should be done to bring about the necessary changes? Nothing springs to mind for most papers, especially since it requires both strategic thought and action.For instance, the Sunday Telegraph argues that "addressing any deep-seated social problem is going to take a generation or more." So it urges a short-term law-and-order solution: firmer policing, tougher sentencing and - by implication - the building of more prisons.The Telegraph also carries a column by Tim Montgomerie in which his recipe for repairing of "Britain's broken society" is also about trying to find a political fix for social problems while bolstering the police and ditching Ken Clarke as justice minister.The Sunday Times's leader also has an overriding law-and-order theme but says "the second task is to tackle the causes of this violent disorder."It reminds us of its recruitment in 1989 of the American political scientist Charles Murray to search for the "underclass." His essay, augmented by a second one four years later, provoked considerable controversy and debate at the time.Now the paper says that Murray's discovery of a group of people who are not merely poor, "but people at the margins of society, unsocialised and often violent... was a wake-up call that few chose to heed."To deal with these people who are "disconnected from society", the Sunday Times puts its faith in "far-reaching" welfare reforms urged by Iain Duncan Smith.The Sindy carries a lengthy piece by Philip Henshaw, headlined "I'm a bleeding-heart liberal - so, what am I to make of these sickening scenes?"He is candid enough to admit that, despite "the liberal urge to understand, explain, improve and cure", liberals were faced, for once, by "a frightening abyss: a catastrophic action motivated, perhaps, by the shallowest and least idealistic of desires; an action of destruction and selfishness which seemed, for a moment, universal rather than the motions of an angry – perhaps rightly angry – minority."Then comes another admission: "What to do about that? No one had the faintest idea. All we can do is what we do best – just go on talking."But another liberal, Will Hutton in The Observer, is as eager as ever to understand, explain and try to improve:"We are arriving at a major turning point in our national life. It is not enough to talk of being tough on crime and the causes of crime. We need an entire root-and-branch reshaping of our economy and society – where both rewards and punishments are judicious, proportional and deserved, and all within a revived and larger understanding of fairness. We cannot let the brute bad luck of birth dictate destinies as lethally as they do in Britain. Nor can rewards be so gigantic for so little contribution or genuine innovation – or responsibilities be so widely evaded. We need a good capitalism and the good society that accompanies it." And how do we get a good capitalism? I seem to recall that capitalism's greatest detractor, and incidentally admirer, K Marx, argued that it was an economic system designed specifically to benefit the wealthy middle and upper classes.Can it really be reformed to do anything but that?