Two articles about Rolf Harris that I meant to mention first thing this morning. Both were published at the weekend and deserve wider audiences because they offer balanced perspectives on the disgraced entertainer from different directions.One, in the Daily Mail on Saturday was by Amanda Platell, and quite the best piece she has written in a long time, "My old friend Rolf groomed me too".It explains just how difficult it was to spot Harris's predilections. Despite a 16-year friendship, Platell never caught on. But she cannot bring herself to join the baying crowd.Her column is easy to access. By contrast, the other article, by Dominic Lawson in the Sunday Times, is hidden behind a paywall. So here's a longer look at his excellent polemic, "We're painting Rolf out of history, an art perfected by Stalin."He begins by noting some of the official responses to Harris's convictions: the elimination of his works - paintings, music, TV footage, awards, plaques - from public view. Lawson is troubled by this Stalin-like activity, especially when it is being done at the behest of those who appear to believe their "childhood has been betrayed" by Harris. "Perhaps I am an especially insensitive person, but this seems to me ridiculous," he wrote. "Harris was a superb performer of ditties... and it is a hysterical overreaction to see all of those now as nothing more than a sinister plot to seduce every listener."For Lawson, Harris is different from the psychopathic Jimmy Savile. As with "the common run of humanity: both good and evil coexist within him." He concluded:"Perhaps this is the nature of mass-media celebrity: there is no room for shades of light and dark — those under the spotlight of public scrutiny must conform to the role either of hero or villain.Needless to say, this view goes back far beyond the modern world. Aristotle believed in the 'unity of the virtues': the concept that all the virtues spring from a unified character, so no good person can possess just some virtues — he must of necessity have them all.In the debased modern version of Aristotelian thought, there is a similar idea of the 'unity of the vices': if Rolf Harris is a pervert, then his entire existence must be discredited. No trace must be permitted to remain within the public sphere, lest it offend or corrupt the impressionable masses.I am not a Christian, but this is supposedly a nation based on Christian principles. If so, it would understand that good and evil constantly coexist within each of us. And even Rolf Harris can be forgiven."Sources: Daily Mail/Sunday Times