So this was the week that the world actually lost its mind. As scare stories are reported around the land, dare you step outside your door for fear of the “killer clowns”?Why wouldn't it go viral? Clowns are unnerving and funny at the same time | Jason Wilson When you strip away the hype and hysteria and probe into this bizarre story covered by practically every media source going, you will find that: 1) there have actually been no killings whatsoever and 2) there are no clowns involved in these non-killings.So what is the truth, if any, in this story? I was rather keen to find out. For I, Robert Bowker AKA professional clown Bibbledy Bob, am also the press relations officer for Clowns International, the oldest clown club in the world.On Tuesday morning I woke up convinced that I’d been mistaken for Donald Trump’s press advisor as my phone was ringing off the hook and my email pinging constantly. At one point I thought my phone was going to melt. By 7am, with weary eyes and armed only with a cold cup of coffee, I began a barrage of interviews with the nation’s press, from Glasgow to Devon, Cumbria to Cumbernauld. Some of the things I heard from around the country were immensely worrying.Warning: contains strong languageIt seems the new craze involves youngsters, many reportedly aged 16 to 18, who are buying cheap rubber masks with scary clown faces on them, then dressing up and jumping out of the dark on complete strangers or chasing them down the street.I heard of a woman in Cumbria holding a small child in her arms who was overcome with fear as two of these idiots appeared with no warning in front of her. I was told of an incident in Stoke-on-Trent in which a man was taking his five-year-old son to infant school and again a pair jumped out leaving them both really shaken by the completely unwanted and unwarranted experience.But possibly the most bizarre and disturbing incident must be the university student in London who took it upon himself to don a rubber mask and chase his fellow students around Brunel’s campus with a chainsaw. What was this fool thinking? You would have thought the risk of serious injury to himself and others would be blatantly obvious. It is hardly surprising that the upshot is the student is currently fighting to remain on his course. These are only a few examples of the many incidents that have occurred this week.While being interviewed, the same two questions kept coming up: as a real clown, what do I make of all of this and how will it affect me?      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘Just because these idiots are putting on some cheap freak show caricature of a clown mask, that certainly does not make them a clown.’ Photograph: Peter Byrne/PAWell, if I were to put on a doctor’s coat would that make me a doctor? Clearly not. So just because these people are putting on cheap caricatures of a clown mask, that certainly does not make them clowns. I hope at some point the parents of those caught doing this will be having strong words reminding them of their responsibilities to society, and that this is completely unacceptable behaviour.As to how will it affect me and other real clowns, in three weeks’ time Halloween will be over and I’m hopeful that the media frenzy will have moved on, leaving genuine clowns to do what we do best. Clowns are smile-givers and mischief-makers. We are the ones who can laugh at ourselves as you laugh with us. We accept our vulnerability and don’t try to hide it. Our job is to please everyone and to scare no one: we only want to make people happy. In these challenging times that’s not an easy task, but it is one that we relish and will continue to do in this great British tradition.If you see a killer clown, don’t run | Tim Dowling So from me, Bibbledy Bob, I bid you a great day and farewell. And if you are like an orange, I’ll see you around.