A police constable was gunned down in a quiet suburban street yesterday after investigating reports that a group of men in a car was acting suspiciously.As the officer approached the car in Bromley, south London, four men ran from it and one opened fire, hitting the 22-year-old constable. Residents and local politicians were shocked at the shooting as Bromley is a relatively well-to-do borough with a low rate of gun crime. The shooting happened shortly after midnight when officers were called to Madeira Avenue just north of the town centre. Four officers in two cars went to the scene and boxed in the car, a silver Honda 4x4. The four men bailed out of the Honda and ran towards one of the police cars. The 22-year-old constable had got out of the passenger side of the car and one of the men opened fire, hitting him in the legs. Even though shots had been fired, two unarmed officers chased the gang. At least one escaped by jumping into the grounds of a synagogue 100 metres down the road. One witness said he had been reading in bed when at around 11.30pm he heard a car alarm go off. He looked out of his window and saw the silver Honda, which had the distinctive registration number WBZ 8880. It moved 100 metres down the road, then stopped again. "I went back to bed and carried on reading," said the witness. "Then around 12.15am I heard two gun shots. I was in the territorial army so I knew immediately it was gunfire. It sounded more like a shotgun than the crack of a pistol. "I went downstairs and saw an officer lying on the pavement. He was completely silent and he was surrounded by other officers who got him some cushions to rest on." The witness, 56, who asked not to be named, said paramedics arrived quickly but did not move the constable for around an hour. Police, including armed officers, soon arrived in the area in force. A helicopter hovered overhead, searching for the men. Chief Superintendent Charles Griggs, borough commander at Bromley, said: "These men had no regard whatsoever for human life. The shots that were fired could easily have killed the injured PC and his colleagues. It is important they are caught as soon as possible." Officers carried out a fingertip search of Madeira Avenue yesterday as residents expressed their alarm. Elsa Farrier, a retired nurse, said she thought the bangs had been a car backfiring. "It's very unusual because this is such a nice, quiet area. I have lived here 26 years and there has never been any trouble at all." Though known as a quiet suburb there were 76 gun-related incidents in Bromley in the 12 months leading up to November. In nearby Lewisham there were 221. The injured constable was in a stable condition in hospital. Fellow officers said he was "shocked but in good spirits".