The CCTV footage is chilling. Suspect number one paces outside, checking his watch, checking all around. Seven minutes later, a second suspect lurks in the hallway, nervously glancing behind him before pulling out his phone. We do not know if these are indeed the culprits. What we know is that last month a gay man used a dating app to arrange for another to visit him in Bayswater, London, and that instead of sex taking place, the first visitor left quickly as a second appeared at the door brandishing what is believed to be a cattle prod. The homeowner was threatened with it, pushed, robbed of cash and computer, and left “very shaken”, according to police.It is a nightmare realised for many who use such apps – in particular gay men, proportionately the biggest users. It feeds into old fears – the unknown, the alien – about the new age of dating. It begs for hysterical headlines and trembling columns about the sinister possibilities lurking in our smartphones.What is striking, however, is how rare such occurrences are. Though we don’t know which particular app was used in this case, a million horror stories can be told about Grindr, Tinder or Scruff or any of the other strangely named applications. But most are no different to any dating trauma: the ancient photos, the awful sex, the halitosis, the rejection. Someone wetting themselves. (Or, in my case recently, the man informing me he has a wife and that she is currently at the psychiatric day unit but that that’s fine because they have an “agreement”. I did not think this was fine.)No, iPhone stranger danger is not what we must fear – our partner or ex is many, many times more likely to beat or murder us than a random hookup. Instead, the dangers of dating apps are less obvious, more insidious, especially for gay people restricted in our dating opportunities.We become products, flashing from the counter – “Buy me, try me”. We compete at the mercy of the marketplace. Amorality rules, vacuity wins, and winning is all. It is a bargain basement plunge, pandering to basic instincts. We become body parts, framed, screened – a Damien Hirst minus the formaldehyde. We are torso, or face, or bicep, or bottom. Choose me, order me, I can be at yours in seconds. Only 20 metres away! With a smartphone you, too, can become someone else’s masturbation aid. Can you feel the liberation yet?I sense only the banal assimilation of individuals into types: the beefy aggressor, the lithe, submissive one. Sexual racism rules, of course. “No Asians” on some profiles, “only into Asian” on others. White, working-class men marketing their “chav” credentials. Guys with disabilities unsure which fetish they fit. The reduction, the objectification, the pornification are wretched and corrosive and everyone’s at it. While writing this I switch on Grindr (whose own founder described it to me as “just a market place”) and a man around the corner asks me to come over. “I haven’t showered,” I say, to put him off. “I just need your throat,” he replies.We lose at love, too. Apps enable our checklists like nothing before. Search by height, age, area, ethnicity, fetish, body type, body hair – all within a mile radius. We forget how stupid our criteria are.Apps are a lifeline for those in the closet, say some. But how much longer does this lifeline keep them there and choke them?The gay scene suffers, too. Bars have closed. Many have waned as the frisson of potential encounters collapses under the promise of an app shag on the way home. We used to speak first.In the silence, fear grows. Are we good enough? Do our penises look long enough? Is the lighting on this selfie capturing pectoral definition? In the silence, emptiness echoes, too: the cold fixation of compulsive behaviour. Scan, scan, check messages, send messages, why didn’t they reply? WHAT’S WRONG WITH ME? We think we are hunters, but all are hunted, pursued by the tech that knows us too well.And so, no gay man will be put off using apps after this aggravated burglary, because fear is not important here. Loneliness is. Affirmation is. Ours is an adulthood resting on the early pillars of isolation and alienation. A dating app is a false salvation, but for many, it is all the market has to offer.