'Britain should be a flagship for race relations but there is a lack of will. The 1991 Gulf war saw a 40 per cent rise in racial attacks, and 9/11 also brought an increase. Labour needs to enforce the countless acts that have been passed.'Maxie Hayles, Birmingham Racial Attacks Monitoring Unit 'The other night I was travelling home and some nasty-looking characters were attacking two robed Muslim men, calling them Pakis and Bin Ladens. They kept yelling "Is there anyone white here?" when one of the Muslim men was white.'  Burhan Ahmed, deputy editor, The Eastern Eye 'Everybody is so petrified about being labelled racist, that words are so measured. The problem with race in Britain is that it's not black and white.' Lenny James, actor and writer'There's not enough celebration of diversity. Instead of being afraid to make eye contact, people should be getting together to have a party and share elements of their culture.' Nimmy March, actor 'Yes, of course Britain is a racist country, and in a very deep way. The history of any island is that of change and movement: people come and go a lot - but there seems to be this conception of Britain that it's white and eternal.' Ekow Eshun, commentator 'The situation has improved since the 1980s except on asylum, where the Government has pandered to racists. If they intern the parents of the next generation of multicultural Britons, they are no better than Thatcher.' Hari Kunzru, novelist 'That racism is now officially a Very Bad Thing has produced some benefits for some non-whites, but the edifice is fragile: witness the feelings generated, from both non-white and native Brits, against refugees and asylum seekers.'  Diran Adebayo, novelist 'A lot of racism depends on who you are, and where you live. People in big cities particularly may not encounter racism, or find that their colour is just not an issue. It's only ever an issue when something negative happens.'  Reeta Chakrabarti, BBC reporter 'Political correctness has made expressing racist views unacceptable - in public. But I have been really surprised about people's attitudes when they've had a few drinks, or when their guard slips.'  Feliz Dexter, comedian  'Black Britons excel at literature. When we lose the football, it's always "England hangs its head in shame" and I think "what about the writers?" Ben Okri and Zadie Smith are known all over the world.' Benjamin Zephaniah, poet 