If you'd been in the Spar supermarket in London's Piccadilly just before midnight on Saturday eight days ago, you'd have seen a gang of some 17 boys aged between 13 and 16 walk in, steal what they wanted and begin to walk out - with nobody saying a thing. Only eyewitness Lindsay Grant, a 21-year-old student, challenged them; how could they do this? What were they thinking? What was their morality? And got pelted with food for her pains.A few minutes later she caught a bus. Eight of the same group got on - and took a mobile from a man and a handbag from a woman as part of a whirlwind robbery before jumping back off. Again, she says, nobody said anything or tried to prevent them. Or made eye contact. Silence ruled. Only her boyfriend went to report the crime to the driver.Grant (she wrote to The Observer and I've talked to her) is outraged as much at the collective silence as she is at the behaviour of the boys. 'Sitting there quiet and not being involved may keep you out of trouble,' she protests, 'but what have you done for society and your next-door neighbour, besides allowing a situation to progress and people to walk all over you, your courage and pride?'The echoes of Richard Whelan's stabbing on a north London bus, and subsequent bleeding to death with only a couple of passengers attempting to help, are all too vivid. You don't want to get involved; the potential dangers are too great and the rewards too paltry. But, while each individual's decision may be rational, the collective consequence of our silence is a vacuum encouraging the disaffected to become ever more lawless.I don't hark back to a golden age - I was mugged as a 13-year-old by a gang in a wood near our London suburb and the old muscle injuries can still hurt. I had thought Britain was indulging in one of its regular moral panics when Blair started talking 'respect', but I've begun to change my mind. There is growing evidence of a degradation of street life which is part of a wider disappearance of the courtesies, mutual reciprocities and social constraints that characterise a well-functioning society. I was mugged out of sight, but people came quickly to help; today there's a growing swell of low-level disorder, verbal violence and lack of mutual respect that legitimises a readiness to mug and rob in full view of others - and you cannot rely on help.When my son got attacked by kids as he cycled past their estate, he knew help was unlikely - just as, if you're in a quiet street or on the top deck of a bus, you know you are on your own, and your assailants know it too.Which is why Blair's line on respect deserved better than the buckets of bile poured over him by left and right alike. At a different time and place, the identification of this issue as a problem and some of the mooted remedies - a National Parenting Academy, extending the youth volunteering scheme, community policing - might have been seen as liberal, progressive and potentially useful. Today, they are not even out of the blocks before everyone feels they have to be trashed as gimmicks, anti-libertarian or failing to address the fundamental issue. One well-known commentator even argued that Blair had gone mad, that his blizzard of initiatives was useless and that his policy framework undermined the fabric of local institutions on which real respect was based.Laying the sins of the world at successive governments' doors, and at Blair's in particular, as if civil society, contemporary culture and capitalism are innocents before deluded central government is easy, but lazy. This is a complicated story; what is undermining the local institutions that can enrich society is much bigger than government 'initiativitis'. Today's giant, centralising homogenising supermarkets, cinema chains and pub groups - which we freely patronise - are also villains.And then there's rising inequality. The pioneering work of Nottingham University's Richard Wilkinson illustrates the damning psychological consequence of being at the bottom of the income and status hierarchy: you feel worthless. Once you start to believe there's no point in trying because the forces marshalled against your self-betterment are so huge, your rage can go anywhere. You can vent it on yourself in alcoholism and drugs, or on other people. The overwhelming evidence is that social disorder has multiple roots, affects whole families, and is worse in inner-city estates. Do we do nothing except try to reinvent a mythical past?Sir Willie Rae, chief constable of Strathclyde, says that he can identify not just the streets but the houses that will incubate the next generation of criminals. The combination of out-of-control children, desperate poverty cheek-by-jowl with great affluence, the impossibility of even rudimentary success at school, and a delinquent peer group are toxic. Insert all that into a wider culture that indulges violence in computer games, music videos and television and you have a cocktail that will generate the gang members of tomorrow. These are the children already excluded from school and terrorising neighbours, while their parents may be involved in domestic violence or drugs.Most parents I know despair of the language their kids use when they are angry or don't want to do something. I do. But that's the contemporary culture which, at the extreme, combines with all the structural reasons for alienation to produce street disorder and crime.All around the country, particular police forces, education authorities, social services and housing departments have been cooperating to engage with identifiable problem families. In Dundee, for the past four years there has been a project which threatens problem families with eviction unless they collaborate in a programme of part surveillance and part support. A single mother living with a delinquent teenager who has attention deficit disorder does not cry foul or believe the intervention useless. She sighs with relief. It's the same story with small-scale programmes in Bristol, Camden and Leeds. And, in every case, the record is of improved school attendance, less domestic violence, fewer Asbos and, among neighbours, a sense that things are improving.These people give meaning to Tony Blair's respect agenda. They are the reason why the patronising dismissal is an inadequate response to his initiative. For, at its core, it tries to widen the reach of such variegated approaches, while providing a national infrastructure of support. The National Parenting Academy will be a resource that local agencies can draw on; the volunteering scheme one to which every teenager will have access. The 'sin bin' idea - the threat of a three-month eviction to compel a problem family to collaborate - is taking what works in Dundee and giving it national exposure.I have reservations about summary justice, spot fines and arrest (although my daughter, a policewoman, tells me that wild 14-year-olds are the hardest to deal with), but the approach works. In short, here is a cluster of intelligent and connected national initiatives that empower local agencies to engage with problem families, and are likely to slow down the rate at which kids become attached to the kinds of gang which Lindsay Grant witnessed on the rampage. Blair has foolishly clothed his initiative in the language of repression and the roll back of civil liberties; the better line would have been to cast New Labour as the champion of common people with a progressive cluster of policies which can ameliorate lives made miserable by the growing disruption of an identifiable few.But it is also, as Lindsay Grant recognises, down to each of us to stand up. Blaming central government or capitalism or Blair evades a hard truth. If we want respect we have to show it ourselves. That means supporting victims at the moment of crime. Individual bravery and accepting obligation is part of the fightback, too. We get the society we deserve.