A labourer was yesterday jailed for life for the murder more than 20 years ago of the 78-year-old rose grower and anti-nuclear campaigner Hilda Murrell.At the end of a four-week trial at Stafford crown court, the jury found that Andrew George, 16 at the time of the crime, had stabbed, sexually assaulted and kidnapped Ms Murrell before dumping her in a Shropshire wood and leaving her to die of cold. The murder of Ms Murrell, a Cambridge graduate in French history, in 1984 prompted a rash of conspiracy theories which pointed the finger of blame at both the security services and the nuclear industry. One suggested she was under suspicion because she had been due to give evidence at the public inquiry into the proposed Sizewell B nuclear reactor. Another linked her death to agents sent to her home to search for top secret documents belonging to her nephew, Robert Green, who played a crucial role in naval intelligence at Northwood during the Falklands campaign. Tam Dalyell, then Labour MP for Linlithgow, claimed in December 1984 that she had been killed by "men of the British intelligence" looking for documents concerning the General Belgrano. Books and plays were written about the murder, documentaries made, and endless newspaper articles produced. But the jury was told that the truth behind Ms Murrell's death was more mundane: she had been killed by George, then a 16-year-old resident at a children's home, as he burgled her detached house in Shrewsbury. The last person to see her alive was the neighbour to whom she had paid 16p she owed for a raffle ticket. The jury of six men and six women took more than 13 hours to reach its unanimous verdict, and George sobbed and shouted abuse as it was announced. The judge, Mr Justice Wakerley, recommended that he should serve at least 15 years before being considered for parole. He described the killing as unspeakable, adding: "The last hours of poor Mrs Murrell were truly awful." He told George he was passing sentence on the basis that he had committed the crimes as a juvenile. He added: "If you had committed that crime recently as an adult, I would have considered a whole life order - no release ever." The court heard that George, now 37, had tied Ms Murrell to the banisters with an ironing board cover and sexually assaulted her, before stabbing her three times and bundling her into her own car, which he crashed after six miles. He stabbed her again and dumped her by a tree. She was left with debilitating stab wounds to her abdomen, and died from hypothermia between five and 10 hours after she was abandoned. Her body was not discovered for several days, until a farmer noticed the abandoned car and friends had become concerned about her wellbeing. The police found her phone was off the hook and the telephone wires had been ripped out of the wall - which further fuelled conspiracy theories surrounding her death. A semen-stained tissue, found in her back bedroom, and stains on her slip matched a DNA profile provided by George. The chances of it matching another man taken randomly from the population were "one in a billion," the court was told. In April 2002, detectives announced they were conduct ing a cold case review and said they would re-examine 3,000 statements, 6,000 lines of inquiry and more than 3,000 exhibits. They said yesterday that with modern DNA techniques the case could have been solved much more quickly, and before the conspiracy theories multiplied. When arrested at his home in Harlescott, Shrewsbury, in June 2003, George refused to answer any questions about Ms Murrell's death, the trial heard. He told his girlfriend during a prison visit that he had not done it and later tried to blame the murder on his brother, Steven. He said they had both entered her home looking for money. Richard Latham, prosecuting, said George realised he was in serious trouble and he had to silence Ms Murrell. "If he simply ran away, the alarm would be raised within minutes," he said. "From the moment he confronted her, he had treated her with the most complete disregard and contempt," Mr Latham added. "What he did to her in the house indicated absolutely ruthless disregard for her well-being." Ms Murrell was a well-known figure in Shropshire and was seen as an active, highly intelligent, independent and defiant individual who did not give in easily. For many years she ran a successful rose-growing business, which she eventually sold to the television gardener Percy Thrower.