The mother of a victim of an alleged serial killer who stalked Ipswich's red light district told a court yesterday that her daughter's last words to her were: "Goodbye mum, I love you." Maire Alderton said that Anneli, 24, or Annie, as she called her, shouted her goodbyes as she left her home in Harwich to catch a train back to Ipswich on December 3 2006.It was the last time she saw her. Anneli's naked body was discovered in woodland a week later, deliberately posed in a cruciform position. She was one of five women who worked as prostitutes and whose bodies were found in isolated spots within 10 days of each other in December 2006.Speaking at the murder trial at Ipswich crown court of Steve Wright, 49, Alderton gave a harrowing account of the cycle of drug addiction and criminal behaviour into which her daughter was caught, in spite of efforts to rehabilitate her.By the time she vanished, Anneli had taken to dyeing her hair peroxide blonde. "It showed that she was not being a yummy mummy but being some drug-taking girl on the street," Alderton said. "There were two different Annies, one with brown hair and one with blond hair."Speaking from behind a screen, Alderton told the court that she had split up from her husband in 1986 and in 1992 moved with her daughter to Cyprus so she could take up a post there. Anneli, then 10, settled well, she said. But four years later, when she returned to Ipswich to spend holidays with her father, her behaviour "began to change". In 1997, Anneli, then 15, and her mother returned to Ipswich. She began taking drugs and her life began a "downward spiral", Alderton told the jury.Alderton's husband, the father of both her children, died at around this time, the court heard. Anneli's mother told the jury that she knew her daughter was addicted to hard drugs, but at that stage did not know she was working as a prostitute.She said her "many efforts" to wean her off drugs and away from her life on the streets were unsuccessful. Her daughter ended up in prison while she was pregnant with her first child. On her release in late 2000, Alderton invited her to live at home. "She was calm and looking forward to being a mother," she said. But Anneli slipped back into addiction.Anneli was convicted of a further offence and returned to prison before being released in 2005, the court heard. In all, Anneli was in prison four times between 2000 and 2006.Alderton said the last time she saw her daughter, at her home in Harwich, Anneli had brought Christmas presents for the family. Asked if she spoke to Anneli as she left, Alderton replied: "No, I didn't, but she shouted 'Goodbye mum, I love you'. But I didn't answer."Wright, a forklift truck driver, denies killing Tania Nicol, 19, Gemma Adams, 25, Anneli Alderton, Annette Nichols, 29, and Paula Clennell, 24.The hearing continues.