Bob Woolmer was not murdered, Jamaican police confirmed today, ending months of speculation about the Pakistan cricket coach's death.The head of the Caribbean island's police force, Lucius Thomas, told a press conference in Kingston that Woolmer had died of natural causes and had not been murdered by strangulation, as the force initially said. Reports from three independent pathologists and a toxicology test showed the 58-year-old former England international cricketer had died of natural causes and had no poisons in his body, Mr Thomas said."The JCF (Jamaica Constabulary Force) has accepted these findings and has closed its investigation into the death of Bob Woolmer." It is an embarrassing u-turn for the police, which treated Woolmer's death as murder after a pathologist concluded he was most likely strangled. Mr Thomas and the officer who led the investigation, deputy commissioner Mark Shields, formerly of Scotland Yard, both insisted today the force had not mishandled the investigation and had been obliged to follow the pathologist's report.This appeared to implicitly place the blame on Jamaican pathologist Dr Ere Seshaiah, who concluded four days after the cricket coach's death that the hyoid bone in his neck was broken in an apparent sign of strangulation.Mr Thomas said his officers had carried out "a thoroughly professional investigation where nothing was left to chance or assumption". He added: "Every effort has been made by the Jamaica Constabulary Force to seek the truth surrounding the circumstances of Bob Woolmer's death and bring the facts to his widow and family." Mr Shields said that police could not "second-guess" the pathologist's report, calling it "an extraordinary case"."We are in a very difficult situation. All we could do was look at what we had... and seek help from elsewhere, which is what we did," he said.Jamaican police now face the threat of possible legal action from Pakistan's cricketers. Ahead of today's announcement, the team spokesman, Pervez Jamil Mir, said the murder inquiry had "maligned" the team's name and he was recommending action in the courts. Former Pakistan cricket captain turned politician Imran Khan has also urged legal action.However, Inzamam-ul-Haq, team captain during the World Cup and one of three Pakistan squad members questioned twice as part of the murder investigation, said there was no need for this."I don't feel court action would be of any use now," he told the AFP news agency today. "The players in general and I, as captain in particular, went through hell and those were the most terrible days of our lives."Woolmer was found dead in his hotel room in Kingston in March, a day after Pakistan lost to Ireland in the Cricket World Cup. He was found by cleaning staff.An initial postmortem examination proved inconclusive, but then Dr Seshaiah's report pointed to foul play. The announcement of the murder investigation unleashed a torrent of speculation about the involvement of criminal gangs and match fixing, or even an irate fan, largely overshadowing the World Cup itself. Investigators had not found "any evidence at all of impropriety" involving players during the World Cup, Mr Thomas said today. Mr Shields agreed today that it would have been better to delay news of the murder probe until police were certain, but stressed this was impossible at the time. "You have to consider the circumstances of this investigation," he said. "It happened in a hotel in sight of the world's media."