Something puzzling yet wonderful is happening in the US. For nearly two decades, and in almost every city, murder rates have been in steady decline. Experts disagree about the reason; some cite better policing, others the advent of legalised abortion removing a cohort of angry, unwanted children from the streets. It might just be spiralling rates of incarceration.But nobody can deny that it is happening. Los Angeles is heading for a year in which a mere 230 people will be murdered. Having suffered about 800 homicides a year in the early 1990s, this must represent a profound change. Quentin Tarantino could never film Pulp Fiction there today.This brings LA down to a level of safety it last enjoyed in the 1960s. Yet even after such a transformation it remains three times as murderous as Britain. In fact, of 35 American cities larger than half a million, only Honolulu has a murder rate near ours.This jars with the populist characterisation of Britain as a broken society beset by growing violence and disorder, one where even Americans claim to feel less safe than in their gun-ridden homeland. David Cameron, in particular, is reluctant to abandon Broken Britain rhetoric: listing Britain's social failings – including a million violent crimes a year – he recently demanded in his spring conference speech: "Which bit of 'broken society' don't these people understand?"(Indeed, Alan Johnson, the home secretary, is currently urging the UK Statistics Authority to censure the Conservatives for what he deems a "concocted deception" in their portrayal of the crime figures.)Britain's raw crime figures are shocking, suggesting that the UK is far more violent than the US – despite much less murder. But clearly something is awry. Can Britain really have 1500 violent crimes for every killing, while in the US they have just 80? If so, this would feed a myth beloved of gun-owners: yes, they kill more, but those guns are great at stopping fights breaking out. Such an explanation is nonsense. The answer instead lies in how we categorise crime. In America only robbery, murder, forcible rape and aggravated assault count as violent. In the UK the definition includes harassment and verbal abuse, as well as threats of violence and stalking. A 2006 study found that half of all violent crime in the UK involved no injury.Furthermore, as shadow home secretary Chris Grayling has discovered, the way we measure violence can change radically. What may once have gone down as a minor scuffle has become an act of violence. With the advent of large-scale surveys and an increasingly bureaucratised police, ever more is measured. Moreover, social standards change, so that we recognise a far wider range of sexual, racial and domestic offences than before. In 1956 an Andy Capp cartoon could portray the hero blackening his wife's eye, quipping: "I'm a man of few pleasures, and one of them 'appens to be knockin' yer about." So much casual violence not only went unmeasured but was scarcely regarded as a crime.The truth is that there is a well-established historical trend towards falling levels of violence. Despite the combination of lurid media reporting and an enlarged definitions of "violence", this trend is still broadly intact. Of course, this historical achievement can never mean total freedom from horrific acts, or that every indicator will always point the right way. This is beyond any liberal society that allows a decent space around free, imperfect human beings. Politicians will forever condemn the conditions of the day and decry the dangerous streets. They have done so for generations, right back to when they actually were dangerous.Murder rates are unambiguous, and thankfully going the right way. People flock to America, despite it being three times as murderous as Britain. Alarmist statistics are a lousy way of telling whether we have a "broken society". As much as they appear to tell a story of rising mayhem, they may instead reflect our increasingly humane standards.