Charles Clarke remained vulnerable last night as critics in his own party and on the opposition benches rounded on his Commons statement and warned of the consequences if fresh cases involving foreign offenders came to light.The home secretary tried to sway Labour backbenchers with a deliberately controversial set of proposals to deport almost all foreigners convicted of imprisonable offences. But Marsha Singh, the MP for Bradford West, appeared to catch the mood of the parliamentary party by expressing anger that so many foreign offenders had been allowed to stay.Speaking after the revelation that a Somali man sought in connection with the murder of the Bradford police officer Sharon Beshenivsky had been allowed to remain in the country, Mr Singh asked: "Why was he not in principle recommended for deportation? Who are these people who cannot see right from wrong? Why was he not tracked? How can we have any faith that the new proposals won't end up in the same shambles as previous proposals?"His fellow Bradford MP Terry Rooney said it would only take one new case to put Mr Clarke "back on the rack". "In theory the proposals sound good, but it is likely to end up with lawyers making a lot of money. The Home Office has a habit of tough legislation that has little impact."A third local MP, Ann Cryer, asked Mr Clarke to recognise that the human right that mattered most was the right to life.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the Conservatives would examine the proposed new laws sympathetically, but said they looked like an attempt to close the prison door after the prisoners had bolted."Laws are fine, but the public require competent action," Mr Davis argued. He blamed Mr Clarke for alerting the media, and thereby the missing prisoners, before he told the police of the plan to track down the missing prisoners.The Liberal Democrat leader, Sir Menzies Campbell, claimed Mr Clarke had "succeeded temporarily by beating people around the head" but suggested he would still be gone by the time of the cabinet reshuffle. He likened his performance to that of a chancellor on budget day - impressive at first, but shot full of holes a few days later.The assistant general secretary of the probation union Napo, Harry Fletcher, said the Home Office's proposals to extend the presumption of deportation to any individual convicted of an imprisonable offence would "increase considerably foreign nationals at risk of deportation".He added: "Foreign nationals convicted of offences such as abusive words, common assault, evasion of fares, interfering with a vehicle, not paying a bill or poaching would be covered by the possibility of removal."The Labour MP John Denham, who chairs the Commons home affairs select committee, said Mr Clarke was not responsible for all the problems. He told BBC Radio 4's The World at One: "I think he has shown that he is doing the things that need to be done at the moment."