Two suspects held in connection with the murder of the British exchange student Meredith Kercher today had their appeal to be released from prison rejected.Amanda Knox, 20, and Raffaele Sollecito, 23, appeared before a panel of three judges at a court in central Perugia, Italy.During the preliminary three-hour hearing, the court re-examined the evidence against the pair to determine if they should be released.But this afternoon, Giuliano Mignini, the lead investigator, said a decision had been made to keep the pair in custody in the town's Capanne prison. Earlier, Knox's lawyer, Luciano Ghirga, emerged from the hearing saying his client had given a brief statement at the hearing proclaiming her innocence. "As you have seen, it has been a long discussion, and we have made our arguments before an attentive court," he said."We are happy and also confident because we have been able to put across our points of view about the indications of guilt and their gravity." Leeds University student Kercher, 21, from Coulsdon, Surrey, was found dead with her throat cut on November 1. Prosecutors believe she was killed while trying to resist a violent sexual attack.Knox, from Seattle, and her Italian boyfriend, Sollecito, were arrested on November 6 and remanded into custody three days later. The pair can be held for up to one year without charge, from November 9. After the hearing, Sollecito's legal team, Luca Maori and Marco Brusco, said their client spoke to the court for around 25 minutes. Two other men have also been arrested in connection with Kercher's murder. Rudy Hermann Guede, 20, was arrested on November 20 in Germany, where he is now awaiting extradition. He has reportedly admitted being in Kercher's flat on the night she died, but said another man killed her.Attempts to extradite him to Italy encountered a significant obstacle yesterday when it was reported from Germany that the judicial authorities there were demanding further guarantees before clearing the move.  Congolese bar owner Diya "Patrick" Lumumba, 38, was also arrested on November 6. He was released from prison last week but remains a suspect in the case. In Perugia, Knox repeated her original account of the night Kercher died, by saying that she spent the entire night of the murder at Sollecito's flat. At one point she had told prosecutors she was at the scene of the crime and had covered her ears to shut out the British student's screams. Sollecito has said he is unsure whether his girlfriend spent all night at his flat. Both have said their recollections are confused, having spent the previous afternoon smoking hashish.Their lawyers have argued the evidence against them is insufficient. Knox's DNA was found on a knife in Sollecito's flat, along with that of her British flatmate.But forensic experts hired by the American's lawyers said this week the traces of Kercher's DNA, near the tip of the blade, were too slight to conclude it was the murder weapon. Nor did the shape of the blade match the wounds on the student's neck and throat. However, prosecutors have reportedly found new evidence that Knox was at the flat on the night of the killing - a drop of her blood on a bathroom tap.A footprint was found near Kercher's bed, which prosecutors initially said belonged to Sollecito. His lawyers deny that it matches one of his shoes.DNA testing has reportedly established that Guede had a sexual contact with the British student. But he insists he tried to save her before panicking and leaving the country. A court in Koblenz is due to decide next week on a request for his extradition. But Germany requires an assurance that, if he were found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment, his case would be re-examined within, at most, 20 years.In Italy, a review can be delayed until 26 years after imprisonment. The chief prosecutor of Koblenz, Norbert Weise, said the assurances so far presented by the Italian authorities were "still insufficient for a final decision".