 No gun was ever pulled, no cashier terrorised, no bank vault cracked. But the rapid rise and fall of Langbar International was one of the most audacious, meticulously planned heists ever to take place in Britain.And, investigators believe, it was executed by a small band of mild-mannered, middle-aged businessmen from across continental Europe who it is now certain will not face justice. How much they took will never be known, but victims' losses are estimated at up to £100m.So smoothly did the fraud operate that the many left out of pocket – among them big City names including Gartmore, Merrill Lynch, Henderson and the Universities Superannuation Scheme – did not even realise they had, in effect, been robbed until weeks after the event, when the elaborate facade came crashing down in October 2005. In the end, it took just two quick calls to check by phone to a bank to expose the sham.This week's relatively minor conviction of frontman Stuart Pearson, the only Brit involved, marks the end of the road for Serious Fraud Office investigators and City of London police after six years pursuing the case from the City to Bermuda, Brazil, Argentina, Switzerland and Spain.Long before Pearson had heard of Crown Corporation, and cloaking their deception behind a mountain of supporting paperwork signed off by a host of C-list advisory firms in the City, multinational fraudsters had engineered the London flotation of their Bermuda-incorporated fraud vehicle in 2003.It made its debut on the London Stock Exchange's junior Aim market. It was a so-called "cash shell" – it had no operations, but purported to have cash reserves in a Brazilian bank. The funds had been raised from its largest investor, Lambert Financial, a private business said to be backed by wealthy families in Latin America.There followed a series of official stock exchange announcements from the company that appeared increasingly outlandish. Crown had won more than $600m (£375m) of contracts in Argentina for construction and waste management – but without any local media organisations reporting such deals. Argentinian officials would later tell fraud investigators this would have been impossible.Investors waryOn another occasion Crown said it was to invest in a gold mine. Later expert scrutiny of accompanying paperwork suggested the mine ought to be "one of the largest underdeveloped gold fields in the world". It was not.There followed further tall stories about major investments in Russian gas groups. Again, they came to nought.Meanwhile, fake contracts and bogus certificates of deposits were traded back and forth between Crown and its largest shareholder, Lambert. Soon Crown claimed to be sitting on cash reserves of $633m, held on deposit at Banco do Brasil.Nevertheless, investors remained wary. There was something not quite right about Crown. It was not until the company recruited a British chief executive, Stuart Pearson, a sober, former Baker Tilly accountant and corporate financier, that serious institutional investor interest stirred.Demand for the stock soared after Pearson stepped off an aircraft after a trip to Brazil with Lambert boss, Avi Arad, in July 2005 waving a piece of paper. The money, Pearson told investors, was genuinely in Brazil. Moreover, it could easily be wired back to Europe.In truth, the trip to Brazil had been the most elaborate deception of all. On arrival Pearson was told a bomb scare at Banco do Brasil's main office meant his meeting with one of the bank's lawyers would have to take place elsewhere. São Paulo police would later tell SFO investigators the serviced office block to which Pearson had been diverted was a notorious fraud hotspot. The supposed lawyer's signature was an unidentifiable squiggle. The supposed lawyer was never traced.Cursory checks on Arad's CV, published as part of Crown's stock market flotation paperwork, might also have raised alarm bells with Pearson. A colourful character, the Spain-based Israeli was said to have gained degrees in maths and physics at 14 before going on to become a bio-terrorism analyst and scientific adviser to Israel's prime minister. Prosecutors later found he had in fact lifted many of his achievements from the details of someone else.At what stage should the penny have dropped for Yorkshire accountant Pearson? That was the question jurors were asked to decide this week. Almost overnight in the summer of 2005 the Leeds businessman found himself at the helm of a purported $633m cash shell with multinational pretensions. It had swallowed up – and assumed the name of – his consultancy Langbar, named after the village just north of Ilkley.Warnings ignoredThe jury was shown evidence that Pearson appeared to put out of his mind a phone call from a concerned banker at the London branch of Banco do Brasil. The banker had told Pearson there were no records of Langbar's declared funds being on deposit. Despite these and other warnings, Pearson pressed ahead. Meanwhile, Lambert's principal director, Dr Mariusz Rybak, and others were furiously selling their shares. Arad took out loans against the value of the Lambert stake.In the end the jury was satisfied Pearson had been at least criminally reckless in issuing misleading statements to investors. He received a 12-month sentence and was barred from being a company director for five years.The only City firm to face sanction for its role in the charade was Nabarro Wells, Langbar's former adviser. It was fined £250,000 for due diligence failures in 2007.The affair remains a shocking reminder of the worst excesses of London's "light touch" approach to regulation, a philosophy which has now been abandoned. So brazen was the Langbar sham that it eventually helped prompt a rewriting of the requirements from companies listed on the Aim."This was fraud on a grand scale," said the SFO's director, Richard Alderman, after the verdict came in. "With scant regard for the essential integrity of the financial markets … I am very pleased that our hard work has brought an offender to justice."Behind the scenes, however, most believe that Pearson, for much of his brief time as Langbar chief executive, was little more than a patsy. Eventually, in October 2005, he did suspend the shares and call in forensic investigators from Kroll. But the ringleaders have escaped justice.Events might have been different. Just as the net appeared to be closing three years ago, the SFO was stopped in its tracks by the sudden death from a heart attack of central conspirator Arad. A further seven arrests in Spain and Switzerland had also been made but the prospect of other potential defendants blaming Arad for the fraud was now glaring.Having learned this week that the SFO has formally closed its Langbar file, there will be champagne corks popping in one or two comfortable homes across Europe this weekend.