Millionaire businessman Christopher Foster shot his wife and teenage daughter before killing himself in the family's blazing mansion, police confirmed yesterday.The head of the inquiry, Detective Superintendent Jon Groves, gave details of CCTV film showing a man thought to be Foster carrying a rifle, leaving outbuildings just before they burst into flame and blocking electronic gates with a horsebox before shooting out two of its tyres.The unhurried, deliberate actions were the endgame, police believe, of a desperate attempt by Foster to avoid financial ruin and public humiliation. He was so close to eviction from the family's "dream estate" that recovery procedures for more than £1m in debts from his failed oil rig insulation business had begun.Remains of a man's body found at the weekend in tonnes of debris at Osbaston House near the hamlet of Maesbrook were identified yesterday as those of 50-year-old Foster. He was lying beside his wife Jill, 49, who had been shot in the head. Foster's .22 rifle lay nearby. The cause of his death is not yet known.Forensic work continues on the remains of a third body, found on Monday. Police believe it is that of 15-year-old Kirstie Foster, although this has not yet been confirmed. Groves said police had decided to reveal details of the inquiry to end speculation and provide answers to the local community. Allegations of kidnap plots and Jill Foster inheriting a fortune were untrue and had added to the grief of the family's relatives and friends."We believe that Mr Foster killed his wife and daughter before setting the fires which destroyed his home and many of its outbuildings in the early hours of Tuesday," said Groves. "We believe he then took his own life after setting the house alight. "This was a terrible tragedy and our thoughts remain with the families of the Fosters at this time."Martin Timmis, head of operational response for Shropshire fire and rescue service, said there appeared to have been several seats to the fire. Investigators are sure accelerant was used.Foster had worked hard to establish himself as a country gentleman after moving to Osbaston from a relatively modest house in Telford eight years ago. But behind the wealth lay a financial mess. Foster's attempt to avoid repaying creditors and tax payments led a high court judge to describe him this year as "not to be trusted" and "bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality". The media were allowed through the police cordon yesterday to see the remains of the £1.2m house from its front drive.The gutted shell of Jill Foster's Range Rover with its personalised number plate stood in the drive, close to a growing pile of black plastic evidence bags. There were messages attached to several bunches of flowers. One message read: "You were all such a great family and I'm going to miss you all."