A man who murdered his former partner and their young son had been arrested last week after threatening to kill her, police have admitted.Rachael Slack, 38, and her 23-month-old son, Auden, were stabbed to death on Wednesday morning by Andrew Cairns, her 44-year-old former partner, who then killed himself with the same knife.Derbyshire police have referred the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC).A neighbour described how she called the police after seeing Slack screaming for help from the window of her cottage in the Derbyshire village of Holbrook."She looked out of the side window which is in front of my drive and I heard her screaming in terror," said 70-year-old Norma Way. "She started shouting to me, 'Norma, Norma, call the police'."The man, I couldn't see, but he had raised his arm. I went to the front door, but it was locked. When the police arrived they both went in, but by then the screaming had stopped," she said.Derbyshire police have confirmed that both Slack and her former partner were dead when officers arrived at the scene. Their son was critically injured. He was taken to Royal Derby hospital by air ambulance, but later died.Neighbours said Slack had been expecting a child by her new partner.Sahiqa Raja, a friend of Slack's, said the dead woman had tried to seek help for Cairns as he battled depression. "This tragedy happened because this person was mentally unstable. This has been going on for three years and she highlighted it to the authorities," she said."He had depression for a very long time and she tried to help him. It's a tragedy that this happened and it certainly could have been stopped. This person should have been sectioned. He was arrested last week for threatening to kill her, and he has been let out to do just that. Someone, somewhere is accountable for what has happened," she said.Slack is understood to have been an artist who grew up locally. Neighbours said she had recently moved back to the area after living in Spain.A spokeswoman for the IPCC confirmed that they had been contacted over the case. "In light of previous police contact with the deceased man, the matter has been referred to the IPCC by Derbyshire police," she said. "We are presently assessing available information before deciding what involvement by the IPCC is required in an investigation. We aim to make a decision as soon as possible."The deaths of Slack and her son bear striking similarities to the murder of Tania Moore. The 26-year-old, also from Derbyshire, was shot dead by her former partner, Mark Dyche, in 2004. The IPCC found that Dyche, who was later sentenced to life in prison, had harassed Moore for more than a year after their relationship broke down, and that Derbyshire police had failed to protect her, despite her reporting him to them six times.