A popular 14-year-old boy was stabbed to death in a north London street after being set upon by a group of youths for "looking at someone the wrong way" in the latest in a string of fatal attacks on teenagers in the capital.Police said Martin Dinnegan, described as a bright child who was never in trouble, was murdered in a "vicious attack" on Tuesday night in Holloway when he and his friends got into an altercation with a group of between 15 and 20 youths.One youth suggested Martin - who became at least the 13th youth to have died in London so far this year as a result of gun and knife violence - may have got caught up in a clash between rival gangs.Another murder investigation was under way in Ilford, east London, after a man thought to be 18 was stabbed in the early hours yesterday. A 20-year-old man was arrested nearby.In other recent incidents Ben Hitchcock, 16, from Penge, south London, was stabbed to death in a fight at the weekend after being beaten in Beckenham, Kent. Fourteen teenagers were arrested and released on police bail. Annaka Keniesha Pinto, 17, died in hospital after being shot in a fight at a bar in Tottenham, north London, early on Saturday.Martin's neighbour, Sadik Turan, said friends had described how he had been chased down the road by a gang who then beat him to the ground and stabbed him.His mother, Lorraine Dinnegan, said: "I've got this terrible numb feeling. One of Martin's friends said he was attacked because they were apparently looking at each other in the wrong way. Before he knew it there were a lot of boys fighting." Mrs Dinnegan, 39, and her husband, James, called for the police and Gordon Brown to do more to tackle knife crime.A family friend, Angela Fitzgerald, said Martin had been hit with a metal bar by a group of boys in the area a few months ago and his friend had been stabbed, and they had previously had their bikes and mobile phones stolen.She described how his friends had seen Martin fall to the ground during the row. "He was very white and then started to go blue and his eyes were just staring. He gasped and they tried to get him up, then they saw blood all over his back."Danny Coyle, the deputy head of St Aloysius Roman Catholic college, paid tribute to a "delightful, pleasant and friendly" pupil. "The playground was eerily quiet, boys were openly crying."By late yesterday afternoon more than 20 bouquets had been laid close to the spot where Martin died on Axminster Road.Two 12-year-olds were arrested after a 14-year-old boy was stabbed in the shoulder in Acton, west London, yesterday morning.