Fifty years ago this autumn, at 14, I received my first custodial sentence, in a detention centre. These places were meant to provide a "short sharp shock" that would deter us delinquents from a life of crime. They failed miserably, of course, as during my later journey through the penal system I came across virtually every member of the class of 57. The centre was a harsh place, but then those were harsher times. Corporal punishment was in full swing in the schools, and rarely a week went by without me getting the strap.Surprisingly, perhaps, such punishment was outlawed in the detention centre, but this prohibition had failed to get through to the mostly ex-military staff. It was important we should not let them know we were hurt; we were proud of not crying in front of them and shed our tears in private.Almost half a century later, at the beginning of last month, I shed tears in public. They came after listening to the mother of another 14-year-old, Adam Rickwood, giving evidence about her son to an inquest jury. Adam hanged himself with his shoelaces in a secure training centre in 2004 after begging his mother to get him moved.The centre was in Co Durham, 116 miles from Adam's Lancashire roots. "Secure training centre" might sound better than "children's prison", but make no mistake, Adam met his death in a jail, one with an annual cost to the state of seven times that of the most exclusive private school. The same linguistic juggling glosses over the fact that using a "nose distraction technique" to restrain a child is the equivalent of punching that kid on the nose.The spin was evident throughout Adam's inquest: witnesses - from social services, youth offending teams and the centre - constantly referred to him as a "young man". Similarly, cells became "bedrooms", and "single separation" was a euphemism for solitary confinement.This was not the first inquest I have attended into the death of a child in custody. In 2004, a coroner's jury in Shropshire examined the way in which Joseph Scholes, 16, met his death. Like Adam, he reached the end of his tether and ended his life suspended from a ligature. At the end of the hearing, the coroner took the highly unusual step of calling for a public inquiry into his death, which could examine, as the inquest had not been allowed to do, the issue of imprisoning vulnerable children.His call was echoed by 112 MPs, who signed an early-day motion, and the matter was debated in the upper house. But the government declined to set up an inquiry, and since Joseph's death a further three children have died while in the custody and care of the state, making 29 in all since 1990.In 2004 the government launched a programme called Every Child Matters, designed to portray its "vision for enhancement of the way in which professionals work together to provide children's care and to place better outcomes for children firmly at the centre of all their policies and approaches". A worse outcome than that which sees children fashioning nooses and hanging themselves in cells far away from home cannot be imagined.To recap, when I took my first step on the penal ladder, the treatment of children was harsh. But at least the authorities made no bones about it - they told us we were in for a hard time. Children in custody now are seemingly better off. They have TVs and hi-fis in their "rooms" and punishment is not on the menu. But prolific self-harm is. Adam, Joseph and the all the others were so full of despair that, rather than face another day, they took their own lives. I never thought I would say this, but compared to the way we treat kids who have gone wrong today, me and the rest of the class of 57 had the best of it.eric.allison@theguardian.com