The teenager accused of murdering schoolboy Rhys Jones tried to get a key prosecution witness to change her story, Liverpool crown court heard today.The jury was played several recordings from a bug placed in the home of Boy M, a co-defendant of the accused, Sean Mercer, 18. The recordings were made after the 16-year-old Boy M was arrested and his relatives had given statements to police. In the recordings, a male voice, alleged by the prosecution to be that of Mercer, can be heard demanding that Boy M's grandmother change her story about the day Mercer visited the house. Boy M's grandmother has given evidence to the jury that she saw Mercer and others at her home on the night Rhys Jones was killed.Mercer denies murder and claims he was elsewhere that Wednesday night.In one recording, a voice says to the grandmother: "You have to say it was Tuesday."When the grandmother refuses to comply, the male voice becomes more insistent: "You better change it. Fucking hell, why can't you? [Say] you've got a bad memory."In another recording, from a later date, the grandmother is heard recounting the exchange to an unknown person.She can be heard saying: "I said [to Mercer], if you haven't done it you've got nothing to worry about. I don't know what all this lying is about." "He said, 'I know, I know', but he went white." During cross-examination, defence barrister Richard Pratt QC suggested it was mostly Boy M talking in the recordings, not Mercer.The grandmother agreed Boy M had asked her to alter her story, but insisted that Mercer also demanded this.Rhys was gunned down in a pub car park after straying into the crossfire of rival gangs on his way back from football practice in August last year. He died in his mother Melanie's arms. The prosecution says Rhys was hit in the neck when Mercer, a member of the Croxteth Crew gang, fired three shots at members of rival group the Strand Gang. Alongside Mercer in the dock are James Yates, 20, Gary Kays and Melvin Coy, both 25, Nathan Quinn, 18, a 17-year-old and a 16-year-old. All are accused of assisting an offender, which they deny.The trial continues.