They may still cling to their 18th century horsehair and elaborate robes, but today the judges of England and Wales will take their first tentative step into 21st century cyberspace. Their first website goes live today, with interactive multiple choice quizzes and a game of "you be the judge".The aim is to inform the public about the work judges do and dispel the perceived view that has emerged from surveys - that they are elderly, fuddy-duddies, who are out of touch with most people's lives and inclined to let criminals off with marshmallow sentences.No judicial bloggers have yet come forward but judges from the lowest rank to the court of appeal have written "day in the life" diaries.In an interview for the website, the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, gives the Guardian's writer Marcel Berlins his views on a range of issues, including wigs - which he wants to scrap for civil cases but suggests their anonymity is useful in the criminal courts.Myth-busting quizzes show that judges, contrary to what the public tends to think, as revealed in a poll by the British Crime Survey, do hand down stiff sentences on robbers, burglars and rapists.The website (www.judiciary.gov.uk) coincides with a huge constitutional upheaval for the judiciary. From today, the lord chancellor will no longer lead the judges or decide who should sit on the bench. In the reforms, the lord chief justice takes over the lord chancellor's role as head of the judiciary.A new independent judicial appointments commission with a brief to create a judiciary more representative of the population will select the judges. By 2009, Britain will have a supreme court to replace the Lords as the country's top court.Behind the changes is a growing awareness that to maintain confidence in the justice system the judiciary needs to engage with the public. Society has moved on from the forelock-tugging times when the lord chief justice, Lord Hewart, could say, in the 1930s, without fear of ridicule: "His Majesty's judges are satisfied with the almost universal admiration in which they are held." Now judges are lambasted daily in the newspapers - usually, they would argue, due to misunderstanding about their work.In 1999 judicial complacency was shattered by the largest ever study of attitudes about judges and the justice system, funded by the Nuffield Foundation. It revealed a lack of confidence across social class in the fairness of courts. Only 53% of people believed they would get a fair hearing at court. And 65% agreed that: "Judges are out of touch with ordinary people's lives." Only 14% disagreed with that statement.The findings alarmed the judiciary because they suggested widespread doubts about the impartiality of judges, who were perceived as old, white and male, and reflecting the values and biases of a privileged elite. As the LSE academic Kate Malleson noted in her 1999 book The New Judiciary: "The judiciary as a body has barely begun to develop the tools which professional users of the press, television and radio require - let alone those appropriate for the new electronic media such as the internet."