A computer containing restricted government information has been stolen from the constituency office of the communities secretary, Hazel Blears, it was revealed today.The theft prompted the government to announce a review of the way that "lower level" material is protected and the Prime Minister asked ministers to ensure that procedures on sensitive information were enforced.A spokesman for Gordon Brown said details of the incident were being sought "as a matter of urgency". It could also mean that Blears has broken the rules on handling restricted government documents, which should not be held on a personal computer. The new shadow home secretary, Dominic Grieve, said he was "alarmed" that a government minister may have been directly responsible for the loss of sensitive information.He added: "It comes after a series of security breaches over which government appears not to have regained control."The government must urgently clarify what happened in this case. If Hazel Blears has breached security rules in relation to material she has handled, parliament must be told exactly how and why this has occurred."Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Chris Huhne said: "Cabinet ministers have just ticked off their civil servants about security lapses, but now Hazel Blears shows that the rot starts at the top. "This is the third breach of secrecy in a week. The government has to get a grip on the slapdash culture of sloppiness that threatens national security." The machine contained some restricted material from the department for communities and local government as well as details relating to her constituency work. The government did not initially say that there had been restricted material among the documents but later put out a statement saying: "The PC did contain a 'confidential' presentation on the housing market from March but the market has now moved on. "There was some restricted information on the PC, but as we have made clear, there is no secret or top secret information. The contents of the PC are protected."The statement added: "It is important to remember that this incident relates to the criminal theft of a security-protected PC from a locked and alarmed office."This case has highlighted that our departmental guidance and procedures on lower-level material are not as clear as they should be. We are therefore revising our guidance and procedures accordingly."The department for communities and local government declined to comment on a BBC report that the restricted documents included papers relating to defence and extremism.The corporation also reported that the documents contained information that shows cabinet members disagree over the government's proposed planning laws. The computer was taken from Blears' office in Salford's Working Class Movement Library on Saturday. A government spokesman stressed that no personal details were among the departmental information."There was a break-in at the constituency office of Hazel Blears on the afternoon of Saturday June 14. Hazel was not there at the time," a spokesman said. "The thief broke in through a window, triggering the building's security alarm. A PC (personal computer) was stolen. Nothing else was taken. "We understand the building's security staff arrived within minutes. "The PC was primarily used for Hazel's constituency business and contained some details of her constituency work. "The PC also contained some material from the department. None of the departmental material included sensitive personal data about the public or would be of use to criminals. "The PC did not contain any secret or top secret information and the contents of the PC are protected and clearly this is now subject to a routine police investigation."