Operation Taming was the culmination of the biggest investigation yet by Maxim, the Scotland Yard team set up 14 months ago to deal with organised crime in London's immigrant communities.Increased migration, the global economy, mass transport and rapidly developing technology have all multiplied the opportunities for complex international criminal networks. London provides rich pickings for foreign criminals who want to make money, often from exploiting fellow immigrants, and Maxim covers a huge range of crimes, from people-trafficking, vice rings and drug-smuggling to document forgery and organised benefit fraud. Thirty detectives work with the immigration service and the passport office in a small team to identify networks and emerging criminal trends. "Many of these are widespread, highly sophisticated operations," said Tarique Ghaffur, the Metropolitan Police assistant commissioner in charge of the specialist crime directorate, which oversees Maxim. "The Maxim team has moved on from traditional policing methods, and operates with its partners in a loose taskforce which takes a very flexible, intelligence-led approach. "It's also about problem solving, coming up with new ideas like changes in the law to make it easier to crack these networks. For example, we've recommended to government they make it illegal to carry fake documents - under the present law we have to prove intent to carry out a crime." As well as false educational establishments providing cover for overseas "students", some networks have the facilities to make thousands of convincing fake identity documents. Others use businesses with high cash turnovers like phone shops, car washes and beauty salons to launder money. "Many high street businesses are not what they seem - for example a nail bar fronting a drugs operation, or a sunbed salon fronting a vice ring," said Detective Chief Superintendent Steven Kupis, who heads the Maxim team. Mr Kupis said there were sensitivities surrounding the team's work. Stereotypes that focus on eastern European links to prostitution, Jamaican connections with the cocaine trade, and Nigerian involvement in document forgery, could risk stigmatising whole communities - and it was often the criminal's compatriots who suffered most from their violence, intimidation and extortion, Mr Kupis said. For instance, in the vice trade, although many eastern European women come to London knowing they will be working as prostitutes and believing they will have a better life, once here they often find themselves virtual prisoners, subjected to threats and intimidation while paying off huge "debts" to minders. There are more than 100 kidnaps a year in London, the great majority linked to drugs and prostitution, and many of the victims are from the same immigrant communities as the perpetrators. Mr Kupis said: "We also struggle with witnesses not wanting to come forward because they are scared they'll either be deported or face reprisals from these gangs." Maxim is trying to work with community representatives, from the grassroots to the consular level, to try to build trust. But with 170 different communities in London and 300 languages and dialects, it will take time and effort to establish links. "Although we carry out covert operations to gather intelligence, we're also aware of the need to involve communities and take advice from them on how best to tackle the problems they face," said Mr Kupis. The Maxim team also liaises with authorities abroad, and has built up its links with law enforcement agencies in places such as Albania, Romania and Jamaica.