The conviction of three young men for their part in the transatlantic airline bomb plot of August 2006 will create a sense of relief within a criminal justice system which had to act quickly once an unplanned intervention by the US in Pakistan created the need to make the many arrests in Britain.After the initial 2008 trial, a retrial based on additional evidence has found enough to convict the key suspects. At the time of the arrests, the Muslim view was that this was potentially yet another bungled operation. Muslims felt stigmatised and politicians, the criminal justice system and related agencies were put under great pressure as a result.What these convictions do is to confirm that there has been and is a serious and credible threat in relation violent extremism among young British-born Muslims and that what could have been Britain's 9/11 was successfully thwarted. This will give succour to those who have argued for so long that the problem is real but generate angst for those who believe that the threat from violent extremism has been over-played.The sentencing has significant implications for Britain's Muslims. They are increasingly having to face up to the reality that British-born, second and third generation individuals have wanted to engage in terror attacks against their fellow countrymen, taking their own lives as part of the process. The work of government to try and mitigate radicalisation by empowering faith leaders, young people and women to become engaged citizens now has more credibility than ever. It is important for the community to fully accept that there is a problem and a clear and present danger from it. The stronger integration of ethnic and faith minorities will provide opportunities for such groups to more effectively engage and act as agents of change. Without that incorporation, these communities may well continue to lag behind.The issue of foreign policy is often omitted from debates on strategies for preventing violent extremism, and it has been noticeably absent of late from wider politics. This is because the foreign policy argument should carry less weight, even if one can recognise patterns in policy that reflect a negative relationship with the Muslim world in general and with post-war Muslim minority communities in particular. Here, there is a further need to counter the arguments put forward by "Islamists" by contending that for any reasonably-minded God-fearing person taking innocent lives to send a political message is unacceptable. The majority of Muslims in Britain have been articulating this sentiment for years.Globally, these convictions ought to have a positive impact in undermining the view, particularly in places such as the Middle East and South Asia, that Muslims in the west are being unfairly treated, which can itself be a driver of radicalisation. Often, British Muslims are presented as being persecuted for their faith while countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan are occupied by forces which are Christian, capitalist and morally corrupt. For many years, Muslims in such places as Syria and Pakistan have felt that the problem of domestic extremism was a function of the neo-colonial interference by western nations. Only recently has there been an acceptance that the problem is also one of internal social, political and cultural discord. The convictions of these young Muslim men will help to strengthen the efforts of those who are trying to work on domestic deradicalisation in those countries.Although the links between UK terror plots and al-Qaida-inspired terrorism are yet to be fully understood, the conviction undoubtedly come as some relief to the many national and international government agencies and units involved in counter-ideology, deradicalisation and prevention of terrorism. For the Muslims in Britain, the sentences will remind us that the problem from within our own communities is serious and credible, and greater efforts are needed to improve social cohesion so as to strengthen the fight against terrorism from within as well as without. Only though communities and state institutions working together can we get to the heart of the problems and, ultimately, develop solutions.