A recording of the emergency call made by teenager Hannah Foster on the night she was kidnapped and murdered was played in court today during the trial of the man accused of killing her. Seventeen-year-old Hannah's body was found dumped at a roadside in Allington Lane, West End, near Southampton, on March 16 2003, two days after she was abducted. She had been raped and strangled.Maninder Pal Singh Kohli, 40, a sandwich delivery van driver, is accused of her murder, rape, kidnapping and false imprisonment. He denies all the charges.Today, the jury at Winchester crown court heard a 50-second recording of the call the teenager made secretly after she was abducted. The background conversation can be heard in the enhanced recording. The prosecution has alleged the male voice in it is Kohli's.The voice can be heard asking: "You belong this country?" Hannah replies that she does and she is English. She can be heard telling him that her name is Sarah, which is the name of her younger sister, and that she is 15.After some inaudible conversation, she tells the man: "That's my, my road ... that was where I live."Shortly afterwards, the male voice is heard to say: "Held (unclear) your head down please." "Sorry ... no" she replies.Throughout the conversation, the operator is asking which service Hannah wants. The line goes to an automated message because Hannah is not directly speaking into the phone, and the call is then disconnected.A statement given to the court by Hannah's mother, Hilary, today provided a detailed account of the hours before the teenager disappeared. Foster, a 51-year-old cardiac nurse, said she got up at 5am on Saturday to go to work and noticed Hannah's bedroom door was open and the landing lights were on."If Hannah decided to stay overnight with a girlfriend, she would always let me know by text," she said.At 6.30am, she phoned her daughter's mobile but there was no reply. She continued to try her daughter's phone several times during the day while she was at work, but it always went to voicemail. Hannah's father reported their daughter missing to the police four hours later. In earlier evidence, a friend of Hannah who is thought to be the last person to have seen her alive told the court of the evening they spent together before she disappeared.Helen Wilkinson, 23, a PhD student, said she stayed the night at Hannah's home in Southampton and they met after college and decided to go out to pubs in Portswood. They left to go home around 10.30pm.The jury was shown CCTV footage of the two women walking past a NatWest bank at 10.43pm on March 14. Wilkinson told the court the pair stopped in Portswood Road where they waited for a few minutes until the bus Hannah was going to take came up the road."The bus came, we saw it at a distance, and Hannah decided to start off because she said the bus was coming and she started to walk," she said.Nicholas Haggan QC, prosecuting, asked: "As the bus moved away down Portswood Road, did you see Hannah?" Wilkinson replied: "She was walking down Highfield Lane, and she turned and waved. I waved."Haggan asked: "Did she wave back?" Wiping away tears, Wilkinson replied: "Yes."Police analysed Hannah's mobile phone data and pinpointed Kohli's van moving along motorways linking Southampton and Portsmouth on the night she disappeared, the jury was told yesterday.Kohli fled the UK to India but was arrested by Indian authorities in 2004 and extradited to the UK in 2007.The trial continues.