The government has been urged to limit the use of the Taser stun gun in the light of a new report that says nearly 350 people have died in the US in the last seven years after being stunned by one.The report suggests Tasers are not as safe as the industry claims, and their use should be limited to life-threatening situations.Last month, the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, said funding was being made available for for up to 10,000 new Tasers after a successful trial in 10 police forces. The Association of Chief Police Officers and the Police Federation welcomed the announcement.The new report, compiled by Amnesty International, found that 90% of those who died after being stunned with a Taser were unarmed and many had not appeared to present a serious threat. Information from 98 autopsies showed that many of those who died had been subjected to repeated or prolonged shocks, far in excess of the five-second standard cycle, or had been fired at by more than one officer at a time. The Taser was even used on some people for failing to comply with police commands after they had already been incapacitated by a first shock. A total of 334 people had died after being subjected to shock from a Taser since 2001, the report claimed."As our findings from the US reveal, Tasers are potentially lethal and are inherently open to abuse," said Amnesty International UK's arms programme director, Oliver Sprague. "They can inflict severe pain at the push of a button, without leaving substantial marks."The Taser is clearly a dangerous weapon and should only be used in very limited circumstances where strictly necessary to protect life or avoid very serious injuries. It must be kept in the hands of a small number of highly trained specialist officers."The research indicated that in at least six of the cases where people died, Tasers had been used on people who were suffering from medical conditions such as seizures. One doctor who crashed his car after an epileptic seizure died after being repeatedly shocked at the side of the highway when, still dazed, he failed to comply with an officer's commands.According to Amnesty, existing studies – many of them funded by the industry – have found the risk of these weapons to be generally low in healthy adults. It is claimed, however, that these studies are limited in scope and there is a need for greater understanding of the effects of such devices on vulnerable people.Most US police departments allow Tasers to be used at a level of threat well below that at which officers would be authorised to use lethal force; some even place them at the level of "hands-on" force or just above "verbal commands", the report said."This is one American practice we definitely do not want to see replicated here in the UK," said Sprage. "We must never put dangerous electro-shock weapons like Tasers in the hands of anyone but highly trained specialist officers."The Home Office stressed yeterday that the Taser would be used only by officers "facing serious threats of violence". In four years of tests in the UK and 3,000 uses of the Taser, there had been no deaths or serious injuries, it said."We are proud that we have one of the few police services around the world that do not regularly carry firearms, and are keen to keep it that way," said a spokesman. "But every day, the police put themselves in danger to protect the public and so we are committed to providing the police with the tools they tell us they need to confront dangerous people. We have undertaken rigorous and unprecedented testing of Taser, submitted these devices for independent medical assessment, and we are advised that the risk of death or serious injury from the use of Tasers is very low."