The jury trying Harold Shipman, the family doctor accused of murdering 15 of his patients, will resume their deliberations today as they try to reach verdicts after hearing evidence for 10 weeks.At the end of the 52nd day of the trial at Preston crown court yesterday, the seven men and five women were sent home after meeting in their room for five and a half hours. They were warned by the judge, Mr Justice Forbes, not to make contact with each other overnight to discuss the case, nor to talk about it to anyone else.The press benches and the public gallery were packed at the beginning of the day as the jury filed out of their seats at 10.37am carrying black court files and their own pads of notes.Some left behind the red cushions that had given them some comfort while sitting for extended periods on the hard wooden benches.Dr Shipman, sat in the brass-railed dock in the panelled courtroom between two prison officers, with his wife Primrose and son Richard in the gallery behind him. Nearby sat relatives of some of Shipman's alleged victims. Senior detectives who had led the inquiry were also in court.The crown alleges that Dr Shipman, 54, whose practice is in Hyde, Greater Manchester, killed 15 of his female patients between 1995 and 1998 by injecting them with lethal doses of diamorphine.During the trial the court heard that traces of morphine were found in nine bodies that were exhumed. The prosecution claims six other women, whose bodies were cremated, were murdered the same way. It said Dr Shipman killed them because he enjoyed having the power of life and death over them. The prosecution also says that Dr Shipman forged the will of Kathleen Grundy, an 81-year-old former mayoress of Hyde, in order to benefit from her £386,000 estate.He denies all the charges.Wearing a light brown suit and striped tie, Dr Shipman watched as the judge completed his summing-up, which had lasted almost 50 hours spread over two weeks.Mr Justice Forbes reminded the jury members that the burden of proof had rested on the prosecution for the entire duration of the trial and that they had to be sure of Shipman's guilt."Nothing else will do," he said. Dr Shipman did not have to prove anything.He also reminded them to judge the case only on the evidence. "You must not speculate or be drawn into speculation," he told them. "You must put out of your mind anything that you may have heard, read or seen outside the court."The judge asked for unanimous verdicts and added: "These counts do not stand or fall together. You must deliver a separate verdict in respect of each count on this indictment."The press and public remained in the court lobby until 4.17pm when the clerk summoned the jury back so that members could be sent home.