It's Friday evening at Waterloo station and some 50,000 would-be passengers are trying to get out of central London. Many are looking forward to spending the weekend in less frenetic surroundings. But they'll be going nowhere for a while. Further down the line, at Twickenham, there is a body on the track. Inspector Lisa Garrett, of the British Transport Police (BTP), has to make a decision before the mutilated remains can be removed. After interviewing the train driver, she concludes that this was clearly suicide rather than murder. The grisly business of clearing the line can now begin, but only after each body part has been photographed. "There's a missing leg under there somewhere," says Garrett, between supervising the disembarkation of 400 passengers. That the task is completed in two hours - including a frantic drive by BTP officers through London's traffic-clogged streets - is a minor miracle. But that's not how it seems to increasingly irate commuters back at Waterloo. "When we're stuck at stations, we don't always realise that a very delicate human transaction is going on just a few miles down the track," says Roger Graef, producer of a new BBC1 documentary series, Rail Cops, which starts on January 27. Graef is not only an eminent film-maker, a pioneer of the "fly-on-the- wall" technique; he is also a criminologist. He has written books about the police, as well as receiving a British Academy of Film and Television Arts award for the first of his documentaries on the Thames Valley Constabulary. Yet even he confesses to having been only dimly aware of the functions of the BTP until its chief constable, Ian Johnston - "an old friend from the Met" - suggested that its profile needed raising. The BTP forms the thinnest of thin blue lines. Just 2,123 officers patrol 10,000 miles of track, 3,000 stations and a travelling population of more than 5.5m a day. Not to mention 400,000 tonnes of freight. "Other forces tend to look down on them as not proper coppers," Graef says. "That's unfair. They're a very professional outfit. Apart from shopkeepers on stations and rough sleepers, they have little in the way of a settled community, which other forces can rely on. They're always responding to emergencies, and have to deal with a disproportionate number of suicides. Scraping bodies from lines is a ghastly business." When the documentary was filmed, last summer, Garrett was an acting inspector covering an area from just south of the Thames to the south coast with 12 constables and two sergeants. "I was once rung up at 10 o'clock one night by a member of the local force in Southampton to report that a body had been found in a suitcase on the station," she recalls. "I was in Waterloo at the time, and I had to take command and start issuing instructions over the phone." On the face of it, her current post as inspector in charge at Finsbury Park underground station, in north London, would seem a comparative doddle. After all, she covers the relatively compact upper reaches of the Victoria, Piccadilly and Northern lines with almost as many staff at her disposal. Nowhere near enough, mind you, to cope with a major terrorist incident. "We've been made very conscious of the possibilities in central London," says Garrett, "and our officers are on extra alert." Her 11 constables and two sergeants can hardly be on every train and every station, however. Inevitably, their role is all too often reactive rather than preventative. After a recent local soccer derby between Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal, a fight broke out on a tube train between Seven Sisters and Finsbury Park. "By the time we got there," Garrett admits, "it was all over." On the same highly-charged day, the BTP inspector had drawn herself up to her full 5ft 2ins to confront angry fans wedged into the ticket hall at Seven Sisters station at a time when trains were in short supply and the south-bound platform below was dangerously overcrowded. "I remember one of the Spurs fans saying: 'We can't have a go at a nice lady like you,'" she says. "There are times in this job when it can be an advantage to be a slightly-built female." Surely, though, it can be a disadvantage within the police force, with its notoriously macho culture? "The other night I made an arrest at Hendon Central while in plain clothes. When it came to booking it in, the custody sergeant immediately assumed I was a constable. And when officers from other areas ring in asking for the inspector, they invariably say 'Hello, sir' before my voice comes on the line. Yet, in eight years with the BTP, I've never had a problem with somebody refusing to do what I ask them because I'm a woman." Perhaps that's because she exudes a sense of authority, which evidently impressed Graef and his director, Nick Poyntz. "Cool under fire . . . the stuff that good policing is made of," is how Graef describes her. Poyntz, keen to seek out the human character behind the uniform, stresses: "She's a liberal individual who studied modern languages at university, spent her last holiday in Croatia and is very keen on amateur dramatics." And she is hardly alone in joining the BTP from what might be considered an unusual background. Sergeant Mark Clelland, based in Cardiff, studied astro-phyisics at university and initially had ambitions to work for the Nasa space agency. PC Claire Saunders, who lives near the Lakeside shopping centre in Essex, once worked for the Foreign Office in Bonn. Even PC Bob Gee, a burly, shaven-headed former infantry sergeant, is stereotypical only when teaching other officers the art of self-defence. When dealing with the thieves and drug-dealers, who are drawn to railway stations like moths to light-bulbs, he comes over as almost delicately polite and patient. Clelland, likewise, lectures youths trespassing on the lines of south Wales like a matey elder brother. Graef denies that BTP officers might have been on their best behaviour because of the presence of television cameras. "That quickly wears off if they're busy doing something," he insists. He goes on to say that much of his work has been "an antidote" to liberal preconceptions about the police force. "That doesn't mean that there aren't some police officers who misbehave," Graef says. "But a lot don't, and that doesn't make the papers. What impressed us about the BTP was the care and respect they devoted to dealing with distress among people who passers-by rarely notice on busy stations." · Rail Cops starts on BBC1 on January 27 at 10.35pm.LifelinesClaire Saunders says she sometimes feels more like a social worker than a police constable. Her regular patrols are at the London terminals of Euston and King's Cross, where there are more than enough damaged people to keep her occupied. "I remember particularly this student who'd got in with the wrong crowd," Saunders says. "She was on heroin and sleeping rough. I talked to her for hours and was delighted when I discovered that her family were willing to take her back. She was trying to 'get clean' from drugs when she had a massive heart attack and died. She was 27. Lovely girl." Saunders' partner on patrol, PC Paul Rowe, is known in the force as Dr Death. In nine years with the British Transport Police, he has dealt with 50 fatalities. "If somebody's going to commit suicide, they tend to do it when I'm on duty," he says, with a hint of the gallows humour he uses as a defence mechanism. "Viewers will think it's callous, but it's the way officers release their stress," he adds. In his case, there is another way. Rowe is a longstanding volunteer on the Nene Valley preserved railway line near his home in Peterborough and, on his days off, he enjoys nothing better than driving a steam train up and down the line. "I find it so relaxing," he says.