A nurse accused of murdering four patients correctly predicted the time one of them would die and said it was "just his luck" as he would have all the paperwork to do, a court heard yesterday.Colin Norris, 31, told a staff nurse at Leeds General Infirmary that things always went wrong in the night and that Ethel Hall would die at 5.15am on his shift, said Robert Smith, prosecuting.Mr Smith told Leeds crown court that Mrs Hall, 86, was one of five women who were given doses of insulin. The prosecution said she had had an operation to repair a fractured hip in November 2002. The operation had gone well and she was recovering on the ward.Mr Norris told a colleague he thought "Ethel was going off that night," Mr Smith said. "It was just his luck, he said, that if Ethel Hall died in the night, he would have all the paperwork to do."Mr Smith said the nurse told another colleague: "Whenever I did nights someone always died." The barrister added: "Significantly, he said something quite extraordinary - he went on to predict the time of Ethel Hall's death."Mr Smith said Mr Norris told a colleague: "It was always in the morning when things go wrong - about 05.15. This prediction by Colin Norris proved to be entirely correct." Mrs Hall was found slumped in her bed in a coma, from which she never recovered. She died on December 11.Mr Norris's first alleged victim, 90-year old Vera Wilby, was admitted to Leeds General Infirmary for an operation in May 2002. Mr Smith said she was a difficult patient and suffered from dementia. He alleges Mr Norris made her drowsy with an unnecessary dose of morphine, then gave her insulin. She fell into a coma but did not die, the court heard. The prosecution claims that Mr Norris gave diamorphine to another patient on the ward, Doris Ludlam, which she did not need, followed by a dose of insulin in June 2002. The 80-year old slipped into a coma from which she did not recover, the jury heard.Bridget Bourke, 88, was admitted to Leeds General Infirmary after fracturing her right hip. Mr Smith said: "At 03.10 on 21 July staff nurse Colin Norris claimed to have discovered Mrs Bourke slumped in bed on her right side and unresponsive." The prosecution said she was deeply unconscious and never recovered.Mr Smith told the court that Mr Norris was then transferred to St James's Hospital across the city, where he worked on an orthopaedic ward. The court heard that Irene Crookes, 79, suffered a hypoglycaemic coma on Mr Norris's night shift on October 19 2002 and died the following morning. Mr Smith described her death as "highly significant". He said that all five victims suffered fractured hips and had undergone surgery, were in poor health and could be regarded as a "burden to nursing staff". All five suffered hypoglycaemia, resulting in a coma. All five were patients on wards where Mr Norris was working and the fatal comas occurred early in the morning, meaning the fatal doses of insulin had been administered at night when the defendant was working.Mr Smith said Mr Norris did not succeed with his first victim but, following the deaths of the next three women, he thought he could carry on with impunity. "He didn't realise that Ethel Hall's blood sample would be sent for analysis to a specialist laboratory and it would result in his arrest."The trial continues.