A teenager who idolised the Yorkshire Ripper has been convicted of murdering two strangers in frenzied attacks. James Fairweather, who was 15 at the time, stabbed James Attfield, 33, 102 times in a park in Colchester, Essex, in March 2014. Three months later he fatally knifed Saudi student Nahid Almanea, 31, as she walked along a nature trail on the edge of the town. The 17-year-old, who can be named after a reporting ban was lifted, admitted manslaughter, claiming he believed he was possessed by the devil and heard voices that compelled him to kill. He denied murder on the grounds of diminished responsibility but was convicted by a jury at Guildford crown court. Fairweather was hunting a third victim when he was caught by police, the court had heard. The teenager was “turned on” by serial killers and researched Ian Huntley, Myra Hindley and the Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe, of whom he had a picture on his phone. His favourite serial killer was the American Ted Bundy, who sexually assaulted, murdered and decapitated his victims. He wanted to emulate his idols and fantasised about killing his headteacher and parents, the jury heard. The killer had played violent computer games Call of Duty and Grand Theft Auto since the age of 13, and had a stash of horror films including Wrong Turn: The Carnage Collection, a DVD about Sutcliffe and a book called The World’s Worst Crimes. After each murder, he obsessively monitored press coverage on the internet.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Attfield (left) and Nahid Almanea on CCTV footage. Photograph: Essex police/PAHe spent his days thinking about “killing, raping and watching pornography”, the jury of five men and seven women were told. The double murder sparked a massive police hunt in Colchester, and the teenager did not attack again for another year. He was arrested on 26 May last year while wearing gloves, armed with a lock knife and on the prowl for his third victim by the Salary Brook nature trail where he had killed Almanea. Fairweather, who has autism, told detectives during police interviews that he heard voices, adding: “They said we need another sacrifice and I was going to get my third victim but there was no one about.” His defence lawyers argued that he had full-blown psychosis and did not fully understand what he was doing. This was dismissed by the prosecutor, Philip Bennetts QC, who said the youth understood his conduct at the time and was able to form a reasonable judgment. He said Fairweather had made preparations before killing and “took steps to conceal afterwards” by throwing the murder weapon into a fast-flowing river nearby. The court was told Fairweather lied about hearing voices and having hallucinations to try to get off the murder charges. The psychiatrist Dr Philip Joseph said the teenager’s description of hallucinations were cliched and unconvincing. “It seems more like something you might see in a horror film,” he said.Fairweather showed no reaction as the jury delivered its unanimous verdicts after deliberating for eight hours and 33 minutes. Mr Justice Robin Spencer QC told the teenager he faced a lengthy prison sentence, adding that the starting point for two murders for someone under 18 was 12 years. He will be sentenced at the Old Bailey on 29 April. The judge said he may hear details at the sentencing “about the impact of the killing on the families of those deceased and there may be some evidence as to the impact on the Colchester area itself”. He thanked the jurors for their diligence in dealing with such a “harrowing” case before excusing them from jury service for four years. Asst Ch Con Steve Worron, of Essex police, said: “These were horrific crimes where two people lost their lives in tragic circumstances. Fairweather admitted killing James and Nahid but denied their murder was calculated and pre-planned. “He then forced their families to endure the pain and grief of a trial rather than admitting that he had murdered them. Today’s verdict will never heal the pain of losing their loved ones in such horrific circumstances. Hopefully they now have some answers and can be reassured that their killer will face a long time behind bars.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   James Attfield’s mother, Julie Finch. Photograph: Andrew Matthews/PAAttfield’s mother, Julie Finch, said the family were grateful for the verdict and hoped they could now begin to move on. She said her “kind and brave son”, who had brain damage after being hit by a car, didn’t deserve to die. “At the time we had no idea the killer was so young – a fact that makes my son’s death feel all the more cruel and unnecessary. James Fairweather is a monster in our eyes – and we will never be able to forgive him.” She thanked the police and media for their support and sensitivity throughout the investigation and trial. After Almanea’s death, her family issued a tribute via a police family liaison officer, Det Con Jane Morgan, which said: “As a family we have been left devastated by the terrible murder of Nahid. Nahid was a remarkable and gentle person who was loved for her kind and caring nature. “Publicly, Nahid was a quiet and dignified lady who chose to pursue her academic studies in order to work towards her PhD, and whilst in England she made a decision that she would respect her heritage and traditions in the way that she dressed and conducted herself. “However, when she was with her family, Nahid was a warm and loving person who enjoyed laughter and the company of her parents, siblings and extended family. The amount of people that attended Nahid’s funeral is a tribute to how much she was cared for and respected.”Bryn Morris, the registrar at the University of Essex, paid tribute to Almanea, saying: “Nahid was a bright, talented and conscientious member of our university community. She was a considerate and well-respected student on our English-language programme and is missed by her teachers and fellow students. “We will continue to honour her memory through the Almanea scholarship for science, which is offered to overseas students studying science or health-related subjects at postgraduate level.” 