So Solid Crew rapper Megaman "urged" a close friend to gun down his love rival during a revenge attack, the Old Bailey heard today.Megaman, real name Dwayne Vincent, 25, and Carl Morgan, 24, are accused of killing Colin Scarlett on November 6 last year.Prosecutor Richard Horwell told jurors this morning: "Revenge is one of the most powerful forces that drives any man. Revenge born of humiliation is of a particularly strong kind."Mr Vincent from Barons Court, west London, and Mr Morgan from Battersea, south London, both deny murdering Colin Scarlett, 24, from Tooting in south London.Mr Horwell alleged that after Mr Morgan was beaten up by his ex-girlfriend's new boyfriend, Mr Scarlett, he went to Mr Scarlett's home, accompanied by Megaman and other friends, and "executed" his rival, urged on by Megaman."Four bullets were discharged. Morgan pulled the trigger and Vincent encouraged him, not only with his presence but through his words, to kill Scarlett," said Mr Horwell. "They left him and went to ground. That is the case - humiliation, revenge and execution."Mr Morgan had had a relationship with Mr Scarlett's girlfriend several years earlier. It had lasted for seven years and they had two children together, aged four and two.The court heard that earlier that day, Mr Scarlett and two other men had beaten up Mr Morgan outside his home, near to his children and in front of his ex-girlfriend and others. The beating left Mr Morgan "contemplating his revenge", said Mr Horwell.The prosecution alleged that when Mr Morgan and Megaman later arrived at Mr Scarlett's home, Mr Scarlett refused to open the door. There followed a "stand-off" between Mr Scarlett and some of his friends, and Megaman, Mr Morgan and their supporters.Mr Horwell said that Megaman saw himself as a "leader" - he is widely regarded as the founder of the hip-hop/garage band So Solid Crew - and used his influence to encourage Mr Morgan to carry out the killing."There was talk and Vincent told Morgan to shoot Scarlett. Vincent, as leader, must have known what effect his words would have," said Mr Horwell."Morgan pulled out his pistol and shot Scarlett. He was shot in the chest, neck and right hand. As Morgan proceeded to shoot Scarlett, Scarlett took out his gun and shot at Morgan."The two accused and their supporters then allegedly fled the scene. After the shooting took place, Megaman disappeared and police launched a man-hunt fearing he had left the country.The case continues.