Charles Clarke today admitted the level of violent offences in Britain was too high as the release of new crime figures increased the pressure on him.The latest figures come as the home secretary faces calls to resign over the foreign prisoners fiasco.Today's data revealed that violent crime rose by 1% in the final three months of last year compared with the same period in 2004. The number of drug crimes increased by 21%, with robberies rising by 6%. However, total recorded crime remained stable overall at nearly 1.4m offences in the quarter - unchanged from the previous quarter.In all, there were 298,600 violent crimes in the three-month period, including a 3% increase in sexual offences. Violence against the person rose by 1%, although the most serious category in this class - including crimes such as homicide and serious wounding - fell by 12%. Domestic burglary fell by 4% and fraud and forgery by 22%. The figures are another blow to Mr Clarke after the Home Office today admitted that 900 foreign prisoners had no recorded nationality.That development followed a day of intense criticism over the release of more than 1,000 foreign nationals before they were considered for deportation. The home secretary has twice offered to resign over the issue.He highlighted the positive aspects of today's crime figures, but admitted they were still too high. "I am encouraged by the fact that violent crime is stabilising, but there is still too much violent crime," he said. "While it is true that nearly half of all violent offences involve no injury, they may still be serious and traumatic for the victim. That is why we are committed to continuing the progress we have made in recent years in driving down violent crime, including robbery. "This rise in recorded offences of robbery needs to be put in context as the figures are still well below those for 2001-02, before the street crime initiative, when robbery was at its height." Separate figures from the British Crime Survey showed the risk of being a victim of crime remained at its lowest since the survey began in 1981, standing at 23%.A further set of figures on gun crime showed that, although offences fell by 3% to 10,878 in 2005, the number of serious injuries caused by firearms jumped by more than one fifth. There were 473 serious injuries recorded last year, compared with 390 in 2004 - a rise of 21%. Slight injuries rose 10% to 3,421. Gun killings showed a significant decline of 30%, falling from 73 to 51.The British Crime Survey showed the government was not succeeding in its attempt to reduce the fear of crime or concerns over antisocial behaviour, despite a series of high-profile campaigns. It revealed the number of people who said they were "very worried" about violent crime had risen from 16% in 2004 to 17% in 2005. The proportion of interviewees who said they were very worried about burglary also rose 1%, increasing to 13%. Five out of seven of the government's measures of concern about antisocial behaviour increased, although two were not considered to be statistically significant. There were significant rises in those who felt noisy neighbours, rowdiness or drunkenness and teenagers hanging around on the streets were big problems in their area. The number of residents reporting problems with drug dealing and vandalism rose slightly, while those reporting problems with the remaining two categories - abandoned cars and rubbish - fell.