Britain's prisons were yesterday officially declared full as it emerged that the home secretary, David Blunkett, has had to fight an 11th hour public spending battle with the chancellor, Gordon Brown, over cash to build more prisons.More than 165 remand prisoners in the West Midlands and West Yorkshire were "locked out" of local jails on Thursday and spent the night in police cells. The prison service confirmed that more than 1,000 police cells around the country have been set aside to receive prisoners from jails that are bursting at the seams. The decision to use police cells for the first time since 1995 was taken as the prison population climbed to a new high of 71,480, including a record 4,428 women. The cost of a police cell is thought to be around £300 a night, against £68 for a prison place, because of police overtime payments. The final bill will run into millions. It is believed that the crisis has led to a bumpy series of last minute meetings between Mr Blunkett and Mr Brown on the comprehensive spending review, with Mr Blunkett seeking 10,800 more prison places over three years. It is thought that he has asked for an extra £1bn to pay for them. This comes on top of extra Home Office spending bids for the police and for the asylum issue. The results will be unveiled by the chancellor on Monday and it is believed that Tony Blair stepped in to resolve the dispute between the government's most heavyweight ministers. A Downing Street spokesman said: "We recognise fully there are difficulties in terms of prison numbers. We haven't hidden that fact. We recognise there is an issue here but we are dealing with it." The prison population is already over the prison service's 64,000 uncrowded capacity, with 14,000 inmates having to "double up" in cells built for one, and is within 173 places of the system's official "bust" limit. The prisons minister, Hilary Benn, said that initially the use of police cells would be restricted to the West Midlands and West Yorkshire, and the prison service would try to avoid using them for women and juveniles. "The aim will be to hold individual prisoners for a minimum period and not more than a few days unless they are appearing regularly at a local court," said a prison service spokeswoman. But prison governors said they believed their use would quickly spread and continue "for the foreseeable future". Ministers are expected to put pressure on prisons to make greater use of the home detention curfew scheme under which 2,344 short-sentenced inmates are currently on early release on an electronic tag. The Treasury has agreed funding to build 2,320 places in prefabricated units within existing prisons by next March, but the prison population has risen 4,500 in the last 12 months. A further 1,300 places are to be made available in two new private prisons but problems over insurance after the fire at the Yarl's Wood immigration detention centre have delayed the signing of contracts to build them. David Roddan, general secretary of the Prison Governors Association, said: "We agree with the home secretary and the lord chief justice that short prison sentences are ineffective. However, we are puzzled that they have done nothing to prevent this exponential rise in the prison population. "Unless next week's criminal justice white paper introduces measures that will divert people away from prison, we predict that by 2006 the prison population in England and Wales will be over 90,000, at an annual cost of £4bn." Some of the measures to be announced next week, such as weekend prison and new "custody plus" sentences which will shorten the time that thousands spend in prison, are unlikely to provide any respite for at least 18 months. Penal reformers were last night outraged by the decision. "This shows the prison system is at absolute crisis. Prisons are bursting at the seams," said Joe Levenson of the Prison Reform Trust.