An elderly man has been jailed for 11 years for the rape and sexual assault of four young girls up to 63 years ago, in what is believed to be the oldest case of its kind ever prosecuted in the UK.Reginald Davies's four child victims, the oldest of whom is now 71, were all in court to hear the 78-year-old sentenced for 13 counts of rape, attempted rape and indecent assault dating back to 1949, when the first of his victims was just eight or nine and he was 15.The women wept and clasped each others hands as Judge Susan Tapping paid tribute to their courage in giving evidence against Davies so many years after his "utterly depraved" abuse. One of the women uses a wheelchair and was escorted to the public gallery by a paramedic."With the trauma of this trial over for your victims, I hope that there's peace of mind ahead for them all," the judge said. "Their courage both individually and together shone through in this courtroom." She hoped the judgment would "ease their burdens", she said, "because none of this is their fault".Davies raped one of the young girls and sexually abused the other three in a 24-year period from 1949 to 1973, shortly after which he emigrated from his home in south Wales to Australia. In doing so, said the judge, "You left behind confused and damaged adults and children, who grew up with the shadow of what you had done to them haunting them all their lives."The jury had earlier heard that one of the women had written him a letter in 2003, and had later confronted him, along with another one of his victims, at his home in Western Australia. In 2008, they reported Davies to police in Australia, and he was arrested at Perth airport in September last year.In legal arguments before the sentencing, Mark Kimsey, for the defence, had said that any custodial sentence imposed on Davies was "akin to giving him a life sentence". He had requested a prison term of "less than double figures to give him some hope that he could return to Australia".The judge stressed the seriousness of the offences, however, and described Davies's wife Pamela, who accompanied him throughout the trial, as "one final victim". She must return to Australia alone and "lead a lonely existence", said Tapping. The couple were due to celebrate their 50th wedding anniversary next year.Speaking after the verdict earlier this week, DI Tessa Philpott of the Metropolitan police's child abuse investigation command said that, thanks to the bravery of Davies's victims, his past had caught up with him."I hope that this will go some way towards helping his victims, whose lives have been blighted by him, to move forward in some small way," she said. "I also hope that his extradition from the other side of the world and conviction give other victims the confidence to come forward and report their experiences to the police."A spokeswoman for the Crown Prosecution Service expressed the hope that the conviction would send "an important message" to victims of similar crimes "that they should come forward regardless of when the offence occurred".