A full case review is under way into how the man who raped his daughters repeatedly and fathered nine of their children got away with it for 25 years, the Prime Minister has announced.Gordon Brown told MPs during prime minister's questions today that lessons had to be learnt from the rapist's abuse of his daughters going undetected for so long.The man, who cannot be named in order to protect the victims, was yesterday jailed for life. "The whole country will be outraged by those unspeakable events in Sheffield and in other parts of the country and will be utterly appalled by the news of the systematic abuse of two sisters by their father over such a long period,'' Brown said."People will want to know how such abuse could go on for so long without the authorities and the wider public services discovering it and taking action. If the system has failed we will change the system.''The case was raised by the Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg, who represents a Sheffield constituency. He said people in the city had been "horrified" to learn of the abuse.The victims now needed "the time, the space and the privacy" to rebuild their lives, he said."I can't imagine a better definition of being evil than torturing your own children in this abusive way,'' he said on BBC Radio Five Live this morning. "Some of the details are heartrending. "The question is how on earth did something like this happen without someone noticing?"The girls went to school. Did they not notice anything? Social services in Lincolnshire and Sheffield – did they not notice anything? The girls were going in and out of hospital – did they not notice anything?"Last night, Clegg's fellow Sheffield MP, the former home secretary David Blunkett, said it was difficult to determine who could have been expected to take steps to intervene. Blunkett, MP for Sheffield Brightside, said: "We should always ask 'What on earth were those close to this actually thinking?' and then ask what responsibility others might have had if they had any knowledge or could have been expected to have any knowledge at all. "Clearly, there is a need to inquire into all the circumstances, the chronology and whether, when the family moved, as they did in 1998 and 2004, any information was transferred. "Those who at least made an effort to do something should not be the ones who are pinpointed – it is those who did not who should examine their conscience."Sheffield social services said an independent review into the case has been launched.