It is, Colin Stagg ardently hopes, all over. That was what he said in an email yesterday in which he explained why he never, ever, wanted to talk to the media again and hoped to return to the anonymous life he led before he was arrested 15 years ago for the murder of Rachel Nickell in front of her son, Alex, on Wimbledon Common."I've retired now," he said. "It's all over. No more interviews. No more anything to do with the Nickell case. It's finished, it's over. I'm getting back to before it started." He remains angry with the media. "Look at the weedy news reporting [on the decision this week to charge another man, Robert Napper, with the murder] - almost nothing but me over the past years. Lies after lies and I'm expected to talk to these people who cannot make a public apology about their lies, forget about the case and get back to normality. It's all in the hands of the Nickell family now, they need the sympathy, not me."Next week Stagg's account of the past 15 years will be published under the title of Pariah. Written with journalist Ted Hynds, it aims to explain how he came to be regarded first as the prime suspect and then, when cleared in court, as the "man who got away with murder". While most authors might be looking at a book tour and enjoying the final acceptance of their innocence, Stagg would be happier walking his black labrador cross, Jessie, visiting his girlfriend, Terri Marchant, in Farnham, Surrey, and reading the books on Celtic mythology and early English history that adorn the bookshelves of his maisonette in Roehampton, south-west London.Hynds, a former People reporter and owner of Devon News Agency, first met Stagg in 1996 when working for the Cook Report on the Nickell case. He said that he had initially been sceptical about Stagg's innocence but gradually became convinced and also warmed to a man whom he feels is still misunderstood."I had read that he was a freak into black magic, living in a house with black painted walls festooned with knives," said Hynds. "In fact, many of the books he had on his shelves were ones I would have been interested in. There was Colin Wilson's book on the supernatural, a biography of Aleister Crowley and a lot of history. As for the knives, they were self-evidently paper knives, one of them a souvenir. This was not the lair of some neo-occultist. It's just that he's always loved nature - I think he loves animals more than humans." When Stagg received £41,000 from the News of the World for his story after he was cleared in 1994 a large chunk of that money went to the RSPCA and animal charities.Brought up on a tough estate in Roehampton, Stagg's childhood nickname was Monk because he was happier reading and painting than hanging out. He applied to join the RAF but pulled out after his father, to whom he was devoted, had a heart attack. He worked irregularly and, after his arrest, became unemployable. He has yet to receive a penny in compensation, despite reports to the contrary; he awaits an assessment on what he may be due in the new year.He does not feel a great animosity towards the police who arrested him. Of Keith Pedder, the detective who led the inquiry, he said: "I believe he was trying to do his best. He got me wrong but it wasn't malicious." He reserves his bile for Paul Britton, the psychologist who advised the police and designed the setting-up of a "honey-trap" with undercover policewoman Lizzie James, who pretended to be attracted to Stagg.Britton faced disciplinary proceedings in 2002. He was accused of breaching the British Psychological Society's code of conduct. All seven allegations against Britton, often regarded as a model for the television character Cracker, were dismissed because of the eight-year delay in bringing the case against him. Although he was cleared, he said that his health and career had been blighted and he complained that his role in the case had become a "myth"."Lizzie James", now 42, left the police in 1998 on health grounds. In 2001 the Metropolitan police paid her £125,000 in compensation shortly before her case for damages, backed by the Police Federation, was due to come to court. Her solicitor said that "the willingness of the Metropolitan police to pay substantial damages must indicate their recognition that she sustained serious psychiatric injury".Andre Hanscombe, Nickell's partner and the father of Alex, left for a new life in France in 1996 because of the constant media attention. The former motorcycle courier, son of a Zimbabwean father and English mother, embarked on a new career as an illustrator of children's books.He wrote a book about his experiences, The Last Thursday in July, published in 1996. He shares Stagg's view of the media: "Callous, mercenary and unfeeling scum ... you've got people on your doorstep every day, people following you around in cars taking pictures of you, people peeping over fences and Rachel's face appearing in the paper every day with any tenuous link ... it's one of those stories that's become part of British culture."His move was aimed at allowing his son, now a bilingual teenager, to have a life in which he was not constantly reminded of his mother's death. "You can't lead your whole life out of one event, however terrible," Hanscombe told the Guardian at the time. "There's no bringing her back."He found it easier to live in France, partly because of the way people accepted that Alex's mother had died without wanting to know how.