Video clips glamorising gang culture posted on popular internet sites such as YouTube should be blocked, a government minister and a leading children's charity said last night.The calls come amid growing fears about the glorification of violence among young people sparked by the fatal shooting of Rhys Jones, 11. He was shot dead last Wednesday in Croxteth Park, Liverpool, an area plagued by gangs.Two local gangs, the Croxteth Crew and the Norris Green Strand Gang - also known as the Nogzy - have posted online video of members touting guns. Clips from other gangs, such as the MI6 from Manchester and Soi from Birmingham also feature prominently.'These videos are clearly an extremely malign and dangerous influence on young people,' said Ivan Lewis, the Health Minister, who has responsibility for intergenerational issues and was the victim of a young gang recently when he tried to stop a crime in his constituency. 'The companies have a responsibility to do everything in their power to prevent young people from being exposed to such imagery and glorification of violence.'John Carr, an internet expert with the children's charity NCH, last night backed his comments: 'It's very worrying that these sites offer these children their 15 minutes of fame. They are making things worse not better. There must be a rapid way of removing these things.'Carr said companies such as Google, which owns YouTube, were aware of public concern over the way their sites were providing a forum for gang culture to flourish. 'The political pressure is really ratcheting up,' he said. 'There is going to have to be some movement by the companies on this. Otherwise we'll get kneejerk legislation.'A spokeswoman for Google said images of 'graphic violence' were barred from YouTube but denied it was the company's responsibility to police the site and remove footage glorifying gangs.She said the company worked closely with the police if offending material was brought to its attention. 'But we don't control the site,' the spokeswoman said. 'And we don't censor. If somebody makes a complaint we will look into it.'Two video clips glorifying gang culture were taken down from the site on Friday - but not by YouTube. It is believed the gang member who placed them on the site removed them after they sparked a public furore.The refusal of YouTube to take action may be investigated by the Commons select committee on the media. One of its members, Labour MP Paul Farrelly, said: 'For me, the same editorial controls should apply to sites like YouTube as they do to newspapers and television. It is irresponsible, and simply not acceptable, for the site to disown its responsibility. It is something that may merit a future investigation by the committee.'But supporters of sites like YouTube say deciding what content should be removed is complex. YouTube is a global community and has a single global content policy. In countries like the US, where citizens have the right to carry guns, images of people carrying weapons is not as shocking as in the UK.Lewis, Labour MP for Bury South, who was minister for young people, described how he found himself a victim of a gang three weeks ago. 'I was driving past an Indian takeaway in my area, at about eight in the evening, when I saw that the place was being stoned by some youths.'I phoned the police from my car, and then I followed them slowly to make sure that we didn't lose sight of them. When they realised that I was following them, they started to stone my car. Thankfully, I wasn't hurt but it was quite scary. These kids were out of control, and they were enjoying it.'