Foreign prisoners serving sentences of less than four years are to be released early and immediately deported to free hundreds of places in overcrowded jails, the Home Office announced yesterday.Paul Goggins, the prisons minister, said an amendment to the criminal justice bill, currently in the Lords, will make them eligible for release four and a half months early. Prisoners serving four years or less are normally released half way through their sentences. The move will create an estimated 400 spaces in prisons in England and Wales, as the prison population is inexorably rising to the maximum capacity of 76,800, 8,600 of which are foreign. The present record population of 74,000 is already nearly 7,000 above the limit defined as "uncrowded". The scheme will come into effect two months after the bill gets the royal assent which is expected in November. It will only apply to prisoners serving sentences of more than three months who are not a risk to the public. Only a handful of the hundreds of Jamaican women drug "mules" are likely to benefit. Mr Goggins said the move will bring the foreign prisoners into line with British prisoners who can be electronically tagged under the home detention curfew (HDC) programme. "There are many foreign nationals in UK prisons, some of those will be suitable to deport before the end of their sentence," Mr Goggins said. "On removal from prison they will be deported immediately to their country of origin. The risk assessment procedure used is robust and has been successful in its application to HDC." Mr Goggins added: "Where foreign national prisoners are considered to present a significant risk to their home communities they will not be removed early. Any foreign national prisoner who is deported and attempts to return to the UK will be re-deported or sent back to custody to serve the remainder of their sentence. Frances Crook, the director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: "I welcome this as a very sensible move which is long overdue. If people are going to be deported anyway what is the point of keeping them here for no particular reason at huge expense to the taxpayer? "I don't believe the government are doing this for any humanitarian reason, however. It is more likely to be because they have to empty the prisons because they are full up."