Pearl thieves raiding Scotland's freshwater mussel beds are threatening to bring the endangered shellfish to the brink of extinction, police have warned. Recent cases on the Spey have seen hundreds of mussels ripped open and left to die on riverbanks as thieves search for rare freshwater pearls.Most mussels do not contain pearls, and many of those discovered are too small to grow one. Now police are urging the public to help track down the offenders, who risk prison and fines of up to £10,000.Douglas Darling, a wildlife crime officer with Grampian police, said: "What we found on the riverbank was hundreds of these small pearl mussel shells, just discarded. There is no way you would get any size of a pearl, if anything at all, inside them. They are very young indeed. Action like this potentially would clear out one pool." Scotland is home to approximately 60% of the world's population of freshwater mussels. But their future is under threat. Pearl mussels were once a major industry in Scotland, and they have been extremely sought after throughout Scottish history. Local pearls are among the crown jewels in the vaults of Edinburgh castle, and legend has it that the pearls were one of the reasons Julius Caesar thought of invading Britain. But over-exploitation has resulted in stocks being almost wiped out. Given their critical status, freshwater pearl mussels were given full protection in 1998. The molluscs are seen as being an important part of Scotland's biodiversity. But today, apart from illegal fishing, they are also threatened by pollution and declining salmon stocks. Ben Ross, from Scottish Natural Heritage, told BBC1 Scotland's Landward programme, to be broadcast at 11am today: "Without salmon there aren't any mussels, the larvae have to attach to the gills of a salmon or trout, though it is not fully known why. "It may be that the salmon take it up the river and allow the species and the population to spread."The mussels can live for between 80 and 100 years, but they only mature after about 10 to 15 years. The most recent incidents have been recorded near Moray. But in the last two years there have also been three other major mussel kills in the Highlands. It is illegal to sell the pearls, which the mussels only produce sometimes, without a licence from the Scottish executive, and there are only two jewellers in Scotland who are allowed to sell pre-1998 Scottish pearls.