Judges and magistrates will have to take into account prison overcrowding when sentencing offenders under legislation unveiled yesterday.The power is part of measures to arrest the growth in the record 75,000 prison population in England and Wales and boost the use of alternative tough community punishments. The management of offenders and sentencing bill includes a radical overhaul of court fines, including a threefold increase in the maximum fine wealthy offenders may face. It confirms the government's intention to extend electronic tagging to those on community punishments and to introduce polygraph "lie detector" tests into Britain for the first time for convicted sex offenders. The bill also introduces the legal framework for the merger of the prison and probation services into the national offender management service, with powers to contract out probation services and a statutory requirement that a detailed sentence plan is drawn up for every convicted offender. The correctional services minister, Paul Goggins, said the package would ensure that offenders received effective punishments while ensuring that prison was reserved for the most dangerous and persistent offenders. But the Tories seized on the requirement of the Sentencing Guidelines Council, chaired by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, to take account of "the capacity of the prison and probation" to deliver.The shadow home secretary, David Davis, claimed the policy would mean that sentencing would be determined by the number of prison places available and not by the crime. "Those who deserve to be in prison should be in prison," he said. The sentencing council has already sparked controversy over its guideline that first-time burglars need not necessarily be sent to prison. It is due to issue guidelines for judges and magistrates on every main area of the criminal code, and its new duty to have regard to the "resources that are likely to be available" is clearly designed to drive down the prison population. At the same time Lord Woolf's council is to be given powers to explain to judges and magistrates the relative costs and effectiveness of different sentences. Prison is far more expensive than community punishments. The attempt to introduce a system of income-related "day fines" marks a return to the unit-fine system abolished in 1993 amid an outcry after a man who dropped a crisp packet was fined £1,200. This time the income-scale does not rise so sharply. The explanatory notes accompanying the bill say that magistrates will decide the fines by multiplying how many "income units" the offence deserves based on its seriousness, multiplied by the offenders' disposable income up to a maximum of £75 a unit. This means that the most minor offences, which currently attract a maximum fine of £200, will in future carry a fine of up to 10 "income units" - a new maximum of £750. The most serious crimes to carry a fine will carry a 200 "income unit" maximum which would increase the maximum from £5,000 to £15,000. Failure to pay a fine will carry a prison sentence rising from a maximum of 21 days for minor offences up to two years for not paying a fine of between £75,000 and £100,000. The power contained in the bill to introduce lie detector tests for convicted sex offenders released on licence would enable a £1m pilot scheme to be launched. The tests would be used to monitor the compliance of the offenders with the conditions of their licence, such as not going near school playgrounds. The legislation lays down how the tests are carried out and who can conduct them and specifically says the results must not be used as evidence in fresh criminal proceedings against the offender.