The remorseless criticism of the Probation Service (Government acts to stem probation crisis, March 21) is misplaced. The service is supervising 13,000 offenders who pose a high or very high risk of reoffending. Last year, 0.6% of these were charged or convicted of a further serious offence. The appalling tragedies of John Monckton, Robert Symons and Mary Anne Leneghan occurred in London at a time when the service was experiencing an unprecedented crisis, characterised by lack of funds, 25% probation officer vacancies, a recruitment freeze and yet more reorganisation. Since that time London has improved and now is in the middle of the Home Office target league tables. Nationally the Probation Service is performing better than ever - breach targets are now achieved in 92% of cases.It is extremely difficult to predict exactly which offender's behaviour might deteriorate to the point of vicious murder. Napo fears politicians will use this criticism to drive through privatisation. Yet the private sector's record in criminal justice so far, with escorts, curfews and hostels management, has been uninspiring. Harry Fletcher  National Association of Probation OfficersThere will undoubtedly now be an increase in the management of high-risk offenders and an expansion of the risk-assessment process. Yet management has never been more extensive or risk assessment such a major feature of everyday work. Probation officers have a long history of effective work with high-risk and dangerous people. It is unlikely that offenders are now more dangerous. The issue perhaps is that risk assessment and management have become all consuming. Far too many are assessed, thus clogging the system and reducing time available; and the need to focus on other more common dangers such as domestic and child abuse is ignored.What these recent tragic examples demonstrate is people offending outside of their predicted boundaries, catching their supervisors out. This might happen less frequently if standardised measures were used less often and probation officers really got to know their offenders. Signs do emerge, but have to be recognised. This requires time and skill, not bureaucracy.  Dr Mike Nash University of PortsmouthThe crisis is not of the Probation Service's making, rather the result of years of political meddling by governments whose remit has been primarily to foster the image that the public is best protected by introducing massive legislative programmes, subjecting those who work in the service to complex organisational change on an unprecedented scale. It is little wonder that those thousands of dedicated probation staff are punch drunk from the battering.  William Pearne University of Derby