A ruling by five law lords yesterday makes it harder for the courts to stop publication of confidential material where disclosure is held to be in the public interest. The judges, headed by Lord Nicholls, unanimously agreed to lift an injunction against the Liverpool Echo preventing it publishing information from leaked documents alleged to show illegal and improper activity by the Cream Group of nightclub promoters. The case is the first to go to the lords for a definitive ruling on a section inserted in the Human Rights Act 1998 after lobbying by newspapers and broadcasters. They argued it was necessary to safeguard the freedom of expression guaranteed by the act. The section says that no gag should be imposed pending a full hearing, unless those seeking it were likely to win a ruling at the eventual trial. Documents and information were passed to the Echo by Chumki Banerjee, dismissed as Cream's financial controller in January 2001. Ms Banerjee, who received no payment for the information, claimed the documents showed illegal and improper activity by the Cream Group. In June 2002 the Echo published articles about alleged corruption involving one director of the Cream group and a council official. In July the high court imposed an injunction banning further publication. The Echo took the case to the court of appeal, which upheld the injunction by a two-one majority. Yesterday the law lords lifted the ban, ruling that Cream was more likely to fail than succeed at trial. The case hinged on how "likely to succeed" should be interpreted: whether it meant there was a reasonable prospect of success, or, alternatively, the action was more likely to succeed than not. Lord Nicholls said the approach should be that courts would be "exceedingly slow" to make interim restraint orders where the applicant had not satisfied the court he was more likely than not to succeed at trial. But there would be cases where it was necessary for the court to depart from this approach, and a lesser degree of likelihood would be enough. Such circumstances included where the adverse consequences of disclosure were particularly grave (for example, someone's life at risk), or where a short-lived injunction was needed to enable the court to hear and consider an application pending trial. The Echo's editor, Mark Dickinson, said: "This is a tremendous victory for press freedom." "We have argued from day one that our readers have a right to know the information we have been given about Cream, and the story should be told in the public interest ... "I think this ruling will be welcomed by newspapers up and down the land ... "After the court of appeal decision, there was a significant increase in the number of solicitors seeking temporary injunctions for spurious reasons. Happily, that trend will now be reversed."