Sister Ann Teresa, a Catholic nun for 40 years, has worked with prostitutes on the streets for seven years and has a clear eye about the violence, danger and abuse common in the trade.Now, she has a plan. Sister Ann Teresa is spearheading a unique and remarkable project to provide women who have been trafficked into the UK as prostitutes an underground network of 'safe' houses across the UK with international links. It would offer a safe passage abroad and long-term support.'These young women are slaves in our cities and towns - [they] don't break the law or disturb the peace,' she said. 'The police are underfunded and overworked so they don't want to scratch around too much for fear that they won't have the resources to cope with what they will find. Trafficked women are offered next to nothing in the UK. They deserve better.'Her project, The Medaille Trust, based in the west of England, began 15 months ago when she contacted other religious orders and ecumenical groups such as the Anglican Churches Alert to Sex Trafficking Across Europe (Chaste). 'We asked communities and congregations to consider whether they could help,' she said.As a result, the trust has already acquired and adapted three houses at secret locations and another two will soon follow. It has links to a hundred 'safe' houses in Italy, that the Catholic Church has run in Italy for the past decade. In the houses, women will receive medical and psychological help, practical support and retraining. Accommodating six women at a time, each costs £200,000 a year to run. What's missing is long -term funding.Sister Ann Teresa has met Paul Goggins, the Home Office minister for serious organised crime, to request that the assets of traffickers should provide the funding. The Trust needs £1m a year. Last year, £5.7m in cash and £12.5m in assets were seized from traffickers - but she has yet to receive an answer.Human trafficking for prostitution is one of the UK's fastest growing industries. It will be one of the priorities for the new Serious and Organised Crime Agency. Yet we have only piecemeal anecdotal knowledge of the women trafficked, by whom and in what circumstances. In the UK, in 2000, Home Office research estimated that up to 1,400 women had been trafficked into the country. Now, according to police and lawyers, up to 80 per cent of 'off street' prostitution - in massage parlours, peep shows and brothels - in places such as Glasgow and London, involve women from Eastern Europe and the Baltic states.Dr Tim Brain, Gloucestershire chief constable and expert on prostitution advice for the Association of Chief Police Officers, believes trafficking has reached 'a tipping point'. 'The momentum has to be stopped,' he said. 'Ten years ago, it was evident in London. Five years ago, it was in major provincial centres, now it's visible in almost any moderate urban area. We have the demand from men who seek the alleged exotic charge of foreign women and we have the supply of women because the traffickers are highly duplicitous. We are talking about a commodity crime generating very big profits - and the commodity is women.'The money to be made from human trafficking was revealed in 2003 when an Albanian, Luan Plakici, was jailed for 10 years after trafficking up to 60 women from Moldova and Romania. Plakici had over £200,000 in the bank, several palatial homes and drove a Ferrari.Many trafficked women are either impoverished, without families or already victims of sexual violence when they leave their country of origin. Most have come willingly with their traffickers, believing they are being smuggled, not sold into bondage. The truth is completely different.'Eva' is a 20-year-old Ukrainian who believed she had a job as a chamber maid in the UK. She and three other women were escorted by a 'respectful' man, who travelled to the UK via Poland and Germany. He provided transport and travel documents for a fee of £2,000, to be paid once Eva began earning.Once here, she was taken to a Nottingham flat where she was raped repeatedly over several days by three men and forced to have unprotected anal sex. Then, she was told she 'owed' £30,000. 'I had no papers, no identity. I was a terrified and ashamed,' she says. 'I knew there was a risk when I left Ukraine. I took it and lost.' She worked in massage parlours and was never allowed out on her own. One woman tried to escape and was beaten with a bicycle chain while the others were made to watch.In January, one of Eva's clients asked her a question that she finally found the courage to answer. 'He wanted to know how much money I earned. I told him none. He was shocked. He said he thought I was making a decent living. He gave me £75 and told me to get out.'Eva literally ran out of the door and didn't stop running for half an hour. Eventually, helped by a church group, she came to London. She is too frightened to contact the police or to return home. 'I was stupid. I thought I was travelling to a better life.'Eva was sold twice within the UK. She has no idea who her traffickers are except that they are Albanian - police say northern Albanians have a particularly strong hold on trafficking. 'They know everybody,' Eva says. 'It is difficult to hide.'Appalling levels of violence mean that women often deny they have been trafficked when 'recovered' in raids by the police or refuse to disclose their experiences - particularly when, in contravention of Home Office guidelines on gender, they are questioned by men, using male interpreters. And there is a wider mistrust. 'I was told by the men who bought me that they own the British police. If I spoke, they would know and kill my mother back home,' says one 22-year-old Lithuanian.One study of 26 trafficked women found that they suffered from gynaecological and psychological problems and sexually transmitted diseases including hepatitis C and syphilis. They had been attacked with sticks, screwdrivers, household implements, bottles and knives. The women had been burnt with cigarettes and thrown from moving cars. One woman, on Christmas Day, had seen 80 clients.Sometimes the women remain silent because the trafficker is also a husband or lover. Silence or late disclosure, however, is often regarded by immigration officials as signalling a lack of credibility. 'At your asylum interview you were very unsure of your dates which should have been firmly impressed in your memory,' one Nigerian woman was told. She had recently escaped from traffickers after 18 months.In October last year, Cuddles, a Birmingham massage parlour was raided. Police discovered 19 women, six of whom were illegal immigrants. They were transferred to Yarl's Wood immigration removal centre to face deportation within days. Human rights lawyers were initially refused access. Immigration officials said: 'At no point did any of the women indicate that they were trafficked into the UK.'In February, Operation Pentameter, headed by Dr Tim Brain, was launched, the first anti-sex trafficking drive to involve all 55 forces in Britain and the Republic of Ireland. So far, 14 women have been recovered and there have been 53 arrests - a number Brain expects to double by June.He says lessons have been learnt since 'Cuddles'. Now, on a case by case basis, immigration officials give women a 'cooling off' period of up to three months before deportation - but critics point out that who and why they are eligible is unclear and protection is still poor.While there is consensus on the seriousness of the crime, in terms of policy, campaigners say there is an alarming and damaging division on how it should be tackled. In addition, as Sister Ann Teresa's experience indicates, there is little in the way of serious funding. In January, the Home Office published proposals for a national action plan to combat trafficking. The consultation period, which closes on Wednesday, has underlined the fundamental difference in approach among those on the frontline. Police and organisations such as Anti-Slavery International focus on the violation of human rights of trafficked women. Immigration authorities, on the other hand, often view the women as suspects in immigration crime and seek to remove them back to their country of origin within days. This forfeits a vital opportunity for the police to gather intelligence.Since 2000, in the UK, there have been several anti-trafficking initiatives, including longer jail sentences and increased international co-operation, with the result that there have been a number of successful prosecutions. A year ago, a Kosovan, an Albanian and a Macedonian received a total of 40 years in jail. They had lured a 15-year-old from Eastern Europe to the UK with the promise of a summer job selling ice cream. On arrival, she had been sold for £4,000 to work in a Birmingham brothel.'There are very strong opportunities to ratchet up what we're doing,' Paul Goggins says. 'Next year is the 200th anniversary of the abolition of slavery. But in trafficking, we now have the shame of a modern kind of slavery. We are duty bound to bear down on it hard.'Campaigning organisations, such as Asylum Aid, want the UK government to ratify an EU directive, already signed by 24 countries including Germany, the Netherlands and Poland, which would give victims of human trafficking an automatic minimum 30-day 'reflection period' and a much easier route to the right to remain permanently in the UK .Goggins says there is a concern that an automatic right to stay may act as a 'pull' factor, encouraging women to claim they have been trafficked. In Italy, however, women are given reflection periods, compensation, the right to remain indefinitely and ongoing support including an adequate income. After several years, the 'pull' factor has yet to emerge.In February, the UK signed a United Nations Protocol, known as the Palermo agreement, that requires ratifying countries to introduce criminal offences to combat sex trafficking, to implement measures to care for victims of trafficking and to take steps to deter demand. In practise, however, as Sister Ann Teresa says, there is minimal support for women in the UK.The Poppy Project in London is, so far, the only 'safe' house in the country. Its criteria for entry are tight and dependent upon the woman giving evidence. Over a three-year period, 431 women were referred but Poppy had the capacity to help only 90. On Wednesday, the Home Office will announce that Poppy's funding is to continue. But huge gaps in provision mean that many traumatised trafficked women, if they do escape, find themselves, like Eva, alone, unprotected and without a legitimate means to earn money.Sister Ann Teresa is undeterred. 'The government must sign the European convention and show it has the political will to lift the stones that conceal the true scale of sexual trafficking. We also want to challenge the view that prostitution is inevitable - just another lifestyle choice for some men. It isn't. We will campaign until it's considered intolerable to pay for sex and to ignore the rights of the women who are enslaved.'A worldwide problem· Between 800,000 and 900,000 people worldwide are trafficked across borders each year, the majority of them in south-east Asia, Japan, Russia and Europe, according to a US government report published in 2003.· Home Office research found that up to 1,420 women were trafficked into the UK for sexual exploitation in 1998.· Police estimate that trafficked women, forced into prostitution in London, see between 20 and 30 men per day.· An estimated 1.2 million children are trafficked each year.· In the UK, people can be charged with trafficking offences under the Sexual Offences Act 2003, with a maximum penalty of 14 years in prison.· Estimates suggest that, in 1990-1998, more than 253,000 women and girls were trafficked into the sex trade of the 12 EU countries. The overall number of women working as prostitutes in these countries has grown to more than half a million.