Jamie Acourt, in common with the other suspects, was told that the High Court had ruled that he could not be prosecuted for anything he admitted or said to the inquiry but could be prosecuted for perjury.Lawson Let me ask you about knives first of all. When you were arrested by police on the 7th of May 1993 at your home, as you know, a number of weapons were found, were they not?Acourt Yes.Lawson They included a tiger lock- knife and a Gurkha-type knife that were found in an upstairs bedroom. You are aware of that?Acourt Yes.Lawson Whose were they?Acourt It wasn't my bedroom. I'm not sure.Lawson Whose was the sword and scabbard found under the cushions on the sofa downstairs?Acourt Those was ornaments, those was in the house.Lawson Ornaments?Acourt Yes.Lawson Why under the cushions on the sofa?Acourt I have no idea.Lawson Any particular reason, or is that where they are usually kept?Acourt I have no idea.Lawson Suggestions that you as a group commonly carried knives are completely untrue, are they?Acourt Yes.Lawson Can you proffer any suggestion as to why those suggestions might have been made?Acourt No idea.Lawson What about the allegations of racism, are they wholly untrue?Acourt Yes.Lawson You attended a committal hearing when you were charged with Stephen Lawrence's murder. Did you see a surveillance video made by the police?Acourt Yes.Lawson That was peppered with references to racial comments?Acourt I can't remember.Lawson Did you remember all the references to niggers, Pakis?Acourt No.Lawson Have you ever come across racists?Acourt No.Lawson Is that the truth?Acourt Yep. Not what I know of.Lawson You know, do you not, that on 27th April you were photographed coming out of 102 Bournbrook Road with a black bin-liner containing something?Acourt Yes.Lawson What were you taking in the bin-liner?Acourt Dirty washing. Though Acourt had not been in the room at the time of the surveillance, he had seen the video and was cross-examined about it by Mansfield. Mansfield I am going to ask you about a specific passage. By strange, ironic coincidence, football is the topic of the day. Luke Knight complaining about the commentators wanting the Cameroons, "fucking niggers", to win. Your brother says, "Makes you sick, doesn't it?"  Neil Acourt says, whilst picking up a knife from a window ledge in the room and sticking it into the arms of a chair, "You rubber-lipped cunt. I reckon that every nigger should be chopped up, mate, and they should be left with nothing but fucking stumps." Now, Jamie, have you forgotten that? Acourt Yes, I have, yeah.  Mansfield Right. Shocked are you? An honest reply, please.  Acourt I ain't shocked. It is nothing to do with me. I ain't shocked.  Mansfield David Norris is saying, "I'd go down Catford and places like that, I am telling you now, with two sub machine-guns and, I am telling you, I'd take one of them, skin the black cunt alive, torture him, set him alight." Then, a little further down, "I would blow their two legs and arms off and say, ‘Go on, you can swim home now'," and he laughs. Neil Acourt, your brother, says, "Just let them squirm like a tit in a barrel." Do you find all this shocking?  Acourt I have no comment on it.  Mansfield You indicated that you did know Clifford Norris.  Acourt I met him when he was younger.  Mansfield After your arrest on 7th of May, did you meet him at all?  Acourt Not what I can remember, no.  Mansfield Well, you know David Norris?  Acourt Yes.  Mansfield Did he say his father was wanted for major crime?  Acourt No.  Mansfield You do carry knives in public, do you not?  Acourt No.  Mansfield In January 1993, the police stopped you, you were found in public with a folding lock-knife, were you not?  Acourt I can't remember all the details.  Mansfield Had you forgotten that you possessed a weapon in public?  Acourt Until you mentioned it, then I remembered.  Mansfield At 102, that is the address you were at that time, quite a large number of weapons were found, were they not?  Acourt They weren't a large number of weapons, no.  Mansfield Were you present when your room was searched?  Acourt Yeah.  Mansfield It is clear two just ordinary kitchen knives were in your bedroom? Did you do cooking in your bedroom?  Acourt Where was they found, in the bedroom?  Mansfield One was found behind a television.  Acourt No, that weren't in my bedroom.  Mansfield It says, "Downstairs bedroom, Jamie Acourt, two knives."  Acourt Okay.  Mansfield In an upstairs bedroom, there was a white jacket which had on it what appeared to be blood staining the right sleeve. Do you know anything about the white jacket?  Acourt No.  •This is an edited extract from Richard Norton-Taylor's dramatisation of the Lawrence inquiry, The Colour Of Justice, playing at the Tricycle Theatre until February 6. It transfers to the Theatre Royal Stratford East from February 15-27, and then to the Victoria Palace from March 3-13. The play will be published by Oberon Books on March 12, priced £5.99. To reserve a copy for £5.99, plus 99p p&p, freephone Guardian CultureShop on 0500 600102. Your card will not be charged until your book is sent.