Seven men who were part of a robbery gang that stole £500,000 in an 18-month crime spree targeting security vans were given lengthy prison sentences today. Terence Wallace, Adrian Johnson, Leroy Wilkinson and Victor Iniodu, Leroy Hall, Leon McKenzie and Brian Henry carried out raids in Oxford, Swindon, Bristol, Bath, Cambridgeshire, Hampshire, Reading, Ipswich and Gloucestershire between April 2006 and September last year.The gang's spree ended when flying squad officers ambushed the men near HSBC in the village of Chandlers Ford, Hampshire, after working out where they would strike next. The ringleader, Mark Nunes, was shot dead by police marksmen when he held a pistol to the head of a security guard. Fellow robber Andrew Markland suffered the same fate when he tried to pick up the weapon and a second officer shot him twice.Getaway driver Wallace, 26, and Johnson, 28, received the longest of the sentences handed down by Judge Richard Southwell at Kingston Crown Court, of 17 years each.Wilkinson, 30, received 12 years, Hall and McKenzie, 28, both received seven years, Henry, 32, received six and a half years, and Iniodu, 34, received five years.Southwell, who praised the professionalism of the police operation, said: "This was serious professional crime, played for high stakes, without regard for public safety."Wallace, Johnson, Wilkinson and Iniodu were found guilty of conspiracy after a seven-week trial. Johnson was also convicted of a separate robbery last November. The other three men pleaded guilty to being part of the gang before the trial began.In their biggest haul the men escaped with £165,000 after pistol-whipping a guard outside a Lloyds TSB in Bristol. During other raids guards were punched and kicked to the ground.The robberies were meticulously planned. The gang targeted Group 4 Security vans as guards were transferring money to high street outlets, selecting only vehicles on low-security routes because they knew they were not equipped with cash boxes that belch out coloured smoke or dye.Locations were chosen next to alleyways for fast getaways and areas were pinpointed where vehicles could be switched. Often two or three stolen cars with false number plates were used, with one being dumped 100 yards down the road to throw police off the scent.Detectives used cell-site analysis - where a position is traced to a mobile phone - to place conspirators at the scenes in the weeks before the robberies. By last summer they had Nunes, who had previously served eight and a half years for armed robbery, and his accomplices under surveillance and were waiting for them in Chandlers Ford, near Southampton, on the morning of September 13.Surveillance footage from the operation was shown to the jury during the trial. As the security guard gets out of the van and Nunes, 35, runs towards him a police officer says: "Robbery, robbery, strike, strike, strike. He has a gun to his head." A shot is heard as Nunes slumps to the floor. Markland, 36, then runs into view and attempts to pick up the weapon dropped by Nunes. He too is shot and falls to the ground.Inquests into the death of Nunes and Markland are to open shortly. The Independent Police Complaints Commission said last month that there was no evidence the marksmen had committed any criminal offences or misconduct, but investigators had found "issues" around the implementation of the operation.