Tony Blair has launched a withering attack on the failure of Britain's institutions to deal with the public's fear of crime, admitting that offenders often escape punishment or receive sentences that do 'not fit the crime'.In a frank admission in today's Observer that people do not feel safe, the Prime Minister reveals details of a sweeping overhaul of the criminal justice system and backs scrapping the double jeopardy rule for murder and other serious offences, thereby allowing a person to be tried a second time. He also says hearsay evidence should be used more regularly, that on-the-spot fines will cover a new range of offences and that he will tackle 'vested interests' within the courts and legal system to tackle people's fear of crime. 'The truth is people don't feel more secure,' he said. 'They know the system is not working as it should.' He said it was time 'emphatically' to rebalance the system in favour of the victim, going far further than the Home Secretary, David Blunkett, who caused controversy by suggesting that the system too often appeared to work in favour of the offender rather than the victim. Senior legal figures said at the time that the Government was tampering with the legal right to be considered innocent until proven guilty. The Queen's Speech on Wednesday will reveal the Government's legislative programme for the next year. A Criminal Justice Bill will be complemented by a Sex Offences Bill, which will increase sentences for violent sex offenders, and the first Anti-Social Behaviour Bill, which will deal with 'low- level' criminality such as graffiti, vandalism and yobbish behaviour. On-the-spot fines, already in place for drunken behaviour and hoax emergency calls, are likely to be extended to fly-tipping, vandalism and illegal spray painting. There will also be two health Bills dealing with semi-autonomous Foundation Hospitals and 'bed-blocking' - where people stay in hospital too long because there is no care available for them in the community; a Hunting Bill that will allow for the introduction of a limited ban on hunting with hounds; a Higher Education Bill that will look at the funding of universities and introduce the possibility of controversial top-up fees for students; and a Licensing Bill that will allow pubs to open 24 hours a day. Downing Street officials said that the reform of the criminal justice system would be the centrepiece of the speech. Asked about the backlash from the legal fraternity, one senior figure in the Prime Minister's inner circle said: 'We are ready for a fight, we are on the side of the public.' Blair's article pushes the boundaries of what is admissible so near to a Queen's Speech, which is supposed to be kept secret. 'It has become increasingly clear what the problem with the system is,' Blair says in the wide-ranging article, which quotes a range of social progressives including Martin Luther King, Robert Kennedy and William Morris. '[It] is a nineteenth-century criminal justice system trying to solve twenty-first- century crimes [where] punishment often does not fit the severity of the crime. 'We will rebalance the system emphatically in favour of the victims of crime. Offenders get away too easily. Previous convictions should be properly taken into account, so should hearsay evidence. 'There should be a change in the double jeopardy law. If there is overwhelming new evidence that implicates the accused again, they should go back into court.' The Prime Minister said it was time to introduce a new understanding of respect, which he described as a 'sim ple notion' and that everyone should work to restore a sense of 'civic responsibility'. The legal profession launched its first salvo in the fight last night when it released a document attacking the central tenets of the Prime Minister's arguments.. 'We believe the suggestion that this exercise is about rebalancing the system in favour of the victim is misguided,' the document, pub lished jointly by the human rights group Liberty, the Criminal Bar Association and the Bar Council, said. 'We see dangers in the politicisation of the debate over criminal justice.' The document says that changes in the criminal justice system since the Nineties have eroded the rights of the accused and will lead to more innocent people being jailed. kamal.ahmed@observer.co.ukSend us your viewsIs Tony Blair's approach to crime and justice on the right track? Email us at debate@observer.co.uk