Scotland Yard yesterday backed away from a proposal to recruit black and Asian officers from Commonwealth nations to increase the number of staff from ethnic minorities.The Met said there were no plans for such a recruitment campaign and that there would have to be legislation before this was possible. The force does, however, intend to take advantage of proposals in the police reform bill, that will allow it to recruit non British passport holders who are resident in the UK. Police forces have been told they must reflect the racial mix of the community they serve. Ethnic minorities make up 25% of the capital's population. The Met has until 2010 to reach this target.In December 2001, the Met had 1,177 black and Asian officers out of a total of 26,390. Though the force has increased the number of officers from minority communities, senior officers said it will be difficult to reach 25%. The Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, appeared to suggest that one solution would be to launch recruitment drives in the Caribbean, India, South Africa and Bangladesh. He said in the Times yesterday: "I am asking our recruiting people to look at recruiting abroad and this would be similar to the NHS recruitment of medical staff and nurses. This would help with ethnic minorities. We would be looking at Commonwealth countries and use short term contracts." But a Met spokesman said yesterday: "Our first aim would be to target people living in this country and there are no plans for recruitment campaigns abroad. The Met faces an enormous recruitment challenge and we need to explore every option to improve our numbers." Sources said there are restrictions to prevent the Met recruiting from abroad. They said it might be something to come back to in the future. The Met has used black personalities, notably the world heavyweight boxing champion Lennox Lewis, in recruitment campaigns. But officers fear it will take years for the damage caused by cases such as the Stephen Lawrence murder to be healed sufficiently to encourage recruitment from ethnic minority communities. The Police Federation has expressed concern over ideas to recruit officers from abroad, believing it would be a mistake to take people who may have little knowledge of what it is like to live and work in the UK.