Our great national debate about crime has always had a problem with police. Research keeps inconveniently finding that that more officers on the beat, in cars, or back at the station, do not cut crime. Often they can even increase it. More officers means a greater likelihood they justify themselves by recording more offences. Home secretaries - and aspirants to the office - tend to brush this away on the grounds that extra officers reassure the public. A glimpse of blue serge and we will all sleep sound.The sentiment was always a bit at odds with experience. According to the classic calculation, it would take an officer 30 years of walking the beat to pass anywhere near a burglary that was actually in progress. Still, this assurance factor long ago became the stuff of security politics. Last week Labour emblazoned its conference backdrop with the terse statement "more police". This week, the Tories' promise of 40,000 extra officers supposedly symbolised their return to the politics of the feasible. But now here comes evidence - in miniature, but plausible - showing more police may increase fear of crime. The residents of New Earswick near York got to live the Blunkett-Letwin dream: the presence of beat officers was significantly increased as part of a Leeds University research study. The results were disconcerting . With the expanded police presence in the village, recorded crime doubled. But the initiative itself also helped to raise the village's "security threshhold" and fear of crime rose, as did the villagers' dissatisfaction with the police. The net result was not just a reminder of the law of unintended consequences, but a warning that putting bobbies on the beat may have the opposite effect to the one that politicians assume. It is a moot point whether the Tories' other theme of the week - more democracy, elected police chiefs or similar - would enhance public safety on the streets in places like New Earswick. But what the study confirms is that perceptions of security are a melange of "hard" and "soft" data and sensibilities. They reflect not just direct experience, but the messages that politicians send and that the media carry. One reality is that hustings rhetoric and banner headlines are part of the issue. Another is that policing is not always the answer. In recent years, certain categories of offence, like gun crime, have shown an increase. Policing needs to respond to that. But crime in general has been falling. If debate were calmer, that might imply we need fewer rather than more police officers. But do not hold your breath on that one.