The blunders made by the police in the Stephen Lawrence murder investigation could happen again, a leading black officer has said. In an interview to mark the fifth anniversary of the publication of the Macpherson report, Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, head of the Metropolitan police's Black Police Association, said the force had "fallen far short" of the progress it should have made. Sir William Macpherson's report concluded that "institutional racism" was to blame for some of the errors the Met had made in its investigation of the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence. This finding convulsed police forces and brought promises of radical reform. The talented student was stabbed to death at a south-east London bus stop in April 1993 by a white gang shouting racist abuse. No one has been convicted of the murder. Mr Logan said: "I can't dismiss the possibility of that happening again." "I don't believe we have gone anywhere near the depth of change we need to prevent a similar incident occurring." He said that while the force had improved, "there's a lot to be done". "Unfortunately the well-meaning soundbites from the senior management do not necessarily get rolled out at a lower level." Mr Logan said the Met was still institutionally racist. "The force has failed to change the structures that underpin the culture of institutional racism. "Wherever you see racial discrimination and you don't see anyone in the force doing anything about it, and the organisation allows that to happen, that's got to be a failure." The Met is again under investigation for its record on race. The former union leader Sir Bill Morris is chairing an inquiry, ordered by the Metropolitan police authority, into whether it conducts more internal disciplinary investigations against ethnic minority employees than against white ones. Mr Logan was himself falsely accused of dishonesty, and received £100,000 from the force in compensation. Last year ethnic minority officers rebelled against the Met, urging a boycott of recruitment campaigns. The boycott was called off after the Morris inquiry was set up and the Met agreed to reinstate Superintendent Ali Dizaei, an outspoken critic who was twice tried and cleared of corruption. His supporters said he was the victim of a racist witch-hunt. Mr Logan said the force was also failing the public in rela tion to stop and searches, as Afro-Caribbean Londoners were eight times more likely to be targeted. "If you can't treat your diverse workforce right, you can't treat a diverse public right, that is the link,", he said. Success in cracking down on race-hate crime, identified in the Macpherson report as a priority, was still too patchy. "Some boroughs are doing very well, others are lagging behind miserably." Mr Logan said the race and violent crimes task force, hailed by the Met leadership as a key change in response to the report, had been downgraded in recent years. He said the "seniority and quality" of personnel had deteriorated since the departure of its former head John Grieve. Mr Grieve, who retired two years ago as deputy assistant commissioner, was hailed by black officers as "the real deal" when it came to a senior officer committed to and knowing how to achieve reform. "You need to have the sort of transformational leadership at the top to make changes across the entire organisation and we haven't got it," Mr Logan said Giving evidence to the Morris inquiry last week, the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, said: "I think, even though our most stringent critics would say we have come a long way in the last four to five years, we still have a massive way to go. I accept that." Since the Macpherson report was published, the Met has increased the number of ethnic minority officers and says it has improved its policy and procedures on cracking down on hate crime. It says all the 36 recommendations in the report are being implemented, and most have been successfully put in place.