Police were still searching on Tuesday night for a body at a farm raided as part of an anti-slavery operation.A forensic archaeologist is overseeing the hunt at the farm in south Wales, with a large compost heap among the sites being examined. The Home Office said the home secretary, Theresa May, had made it clear that she was determined to tackle the "scourge of modern slavery".A spokesman said: "We are already taking action on a number of fronts. We are working with frontline professionals to help them better identify and support potential victims. The new National Crime Agency will, from next month, lead an enhanced and co-ordinated response to targeting trafficking gangs, and we will be overhauling and updating legislation by bringing forward a draft modern slavery bill this session."The Gwent police investigation started after the discovery in March of man in the Marshfield area, close to the coast between Cardiff and Newport. Darrell Simester, who had been missing from Worcestershire for 13 years, had torn clothes and teeth missing.Two men and two women, aged between 36 and 66, were arrested in raids this week in Operation Imperial, involving more than 100 officers from Gwent police and the Serious Organised Crime Agency, some of them armed.A Polish man has been taken to hospital, where his physical and mental condition is being assessed.Forensic teams were combing the farm on the strength of intelligence which suggests a body may be buried there. Detective Superintendent Paul Griffiths, of Gwent police, said the raids were the "latest phase of a long-running investigation into alleged offences of slavery and servitude".He continued: "The investigation began when a 43-year-old man was found to be living at the Marshfield site in very poor conditions having been reported missing by his family for 13 years."Since then a specialist team of detectives has been investigating and gathering intelligence to ascertain whether this is part of a larger criminal conspiracy."In addition to the suspected offences in relation to slavery and servitude, we are also acting on intelligence which suggests that the body of an unknown person may be buried at the Marshfield site."He said: "We've received a number of calls from individuals who may also be potential victims or important witnesses. I'm urging those individuals to contact the investigation team again as we believe they may have more information which could be of assistance."Griffiths also appealed for the writer of an anonymous letter sent to a neighbouring force some months ago to contact the police. Other agencies involved include the UK Human Trafficking Centre, the RSPCA and the Red Cross.A neighbour, who wanted to remain anonymous, said: "It's just shocking. I just cannot get my head around this. I don't think I've ever seen so many police in my life."