Undercover police officers shot dead the back seat passenger of a car they had stopped and surrounded in north-west London, Scotland Yard confirmed yesterday.The ambush, on Saturday evening in Edgware, was part of a preplanned operation by around 25 specialist officers. Three firearms were later recovered from the vehicle, the police spokesman said. Passers-by and restaurant customers on Hale Lane scattered as unmarked police cars blocked in the targeted silver Golf hatchback and a rapid series of gunshots reverberated around the streets at about 8pm. The shooting was yesterday being investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission. One officer who opened fire has been taken off armed duties, standard procedure in such incidents. Witnesses eating outside at the Harvester Restaurant on Hale Lane were said to have heard police shout warnings three times before the gunfire. "I think there were about six shots. At first we thought it was fireworks," said the restaurant's manager, Simon Milner. "But there were eight to 10 officers with guns and people scattering all over the place. The smoke was just drifting away. "They dragged three guys out of the car and walked away with two of them. The other guy was laid out on the pavement and they spent 10 to 15 minutes trying to bring him round. "By the time the ambulance arrived they didn't even bother unpacking anything." Mr Milner went on: "From what I was told by customers, the guy was hit in the head. He had been given three warnings and didn't comply. The shots were fired after the vehicle had been stopped in the middle of the road by the roundabout and surrounded. "An unmarked police car had braked in front and other plain police cars pulled up around it. Some of the officers had handguns, others short rifles." Another member of staff, who declined to be named, saw the victim lying on the ground. "He was face up," she said. "There was blood on his face. Some people said he had been shot in the head." Tom Mansfield, 24, a hospital worker, was driving along Hale Lane when he "saw a car coming towards me on my side of the road. I braked as a silver Golf was surrounded by unmarked police cars. "About 16 cops jumped out and started shouting at the three men in the Golf. A police officer smashed the driver's window as they let off about 15 rounds. One of the police officers was stood up on the bonnet of his car." A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the victim had been in his 20s. His family were being informed yesterday. "A man in the back seat of the car was shot by one of our officers," she added. "The other two men were arrested and taken into custody. Three firearms were recovered. The car was stopped on Hale Lane as part of a preplanned operation by the Specialist Crime Directorate and SO19 [the firearms unit]."Jerry O'Sullivan, 55, a TV aerial technician, was one of those in the Railway Tavern when the incident occurred. He said he had heard several shots before police officers rushed into the pub and sealed off the premises. "Everybody jumped to the floor and the doors burst open," he said. "The police came in with guns from the front and the back." Mr O'Sullivan, who lives opposite the pub, said the police had told everyone to stay in the premises, and they were finally let out at about 10.30pm. "Everyone had to go out of the back of the pub away from the scene. There were lots of bikers in the pub with their kids who were absolutely terrified when they saw all the guns. Nobody really knew what was going on." The area remained sealed off yesterday and obscured with large plastic groundsheets as police officers kept the road clear. At midday a black private ambulance arrived at the scene to remove the body. It was followed by a low-loader lorry which removed the Golf car. The IPCC spokeswoman said yesterday it was too early to ascertain how many shots had been fired or comment on whether the dead man had threatened police with a firearm. In a short statement, the organisation said: "Police fired a number of shots and the man was hit when in the vehicle. Three firearms were recovered from the vehicle and will be the subject of urgent forensic examination. "The incident was referred to the IPCC and a team of its investigators, led by Senior Investigator Simon Cousins, worked through the night with officers from the Metropolitan Police Directorate of Professional Standards carrying out an assessment."