Detectives are questioning the landlord of the landscape architect Joanna Yeates after arresting him on suspicion of her murder.Police arrested Chris Jefferies, 65, just after 7am at his flat, which is above Yeates's ground-floor home in Clifton, Bristol.Two cars were later removed from outside the building. One is believed to have belonged to Jefferies, a former English teacher at nearby Clifton College. Forensic examination of the building where they both lived was stepped up.A spokesman for Avon and Somerset police said: "Just after 7am this morning, police attended an address in Canynge Road and arrested a 65-year-old man on suspicion of murder."He has been taken into custody at a police station within the Avon and Somerset force area and detained for questioning."Detectives investigating Joanna's murder are continuing to carry out forensic examinations, and are also continuing to appeal for anyone with any information that can help the inquiry to call the Operation Braid incident room."Yeates's family said they were pleased progress appeared to have been made in the case. Her father, David Yeates, an IT worker from Ampfield in Hampshire, said: "At this time our focus is still with Jo. At the end of the day, obviously I'm not happy because my daughter is still dead. But we are pleased the police have made an arrest as they have been working very hard to make progress in this case."During the investigation police have not told us everything they have discovered but we understand there are certain things they cannot reveal."Yeates's mother, Theresa, added: "We are very pleased there has been an arrest."It emerged yesterday that Jefferies had claimed to have seen three people, one of whom he believed was Yeates, leaving her flat on the night she disappeared.Neighbours revealed Jefferies had said he saw the three figures as he pulled up outside her flat at around 9pm on Friday 17 December, about 15 minutes after police believe she arrived home.Police immediately confirmed they were treating what Jefferies had told them as a line of inquiry.But when interviewed by reporters on his doorstep, he said that what he had told police was vaguer than had been reported."I definitely cannot say that I saw Joanna Yeates that evening. No," Jefferies said.He added: "Everything I am aware of I have told the police and I don't really want to talk about it."Jefferies' claim that he had seen three figures leaving Yeates's flat appeared to be crucial as it would have been the last sighting of her.CCTV footage shows her buying a pizza from a Tesco shop five minutes walk from her home at 8.40pm. Neither the pizza nor its packaging has been found, though the receipt for it was in her flat.Other puzzles include why Yeates apparently left her coat, keys, purse and bankcards in her flat.Yeates was reported missing on Sunday 19 December when her boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returned to the flat they shared. Her body was found on a roadside verge three miles away on Christmas morning and a postmortem revealed she had been strangled.Police appear to have intensified forensic examination of the building where the couple and Jefferies lived. Yesterday they took away the blue front door from her flat for analysis.A resident, Tony Buss, 51, said that one of the cars towed away by police belonged to Jefferies. "Today's news is a shock and surprise," he said.Another neighbour, a 26-year-old man who did not want to be named, said: "It's all been pretty scary, especially for my girlfriend as I'm away most of the week. We chose the area of Clifton to live in because we thought it was safe."Referring to Jefferies, he said: "We see him all the time on the road."