A woman's claims that she was physically assaulted by a police officer will be investigated by the Independent Police Complaints Commission, the watchdog said today.The move comes after CCTV footage, obtained by the Guardian, emerged showing Toni Comer being repeatedly punched by an officer outside a Sheffield nightclub.The film shows Ms Comer, then aged 19, being forcibly restrained by a number of officers after being ejected from the club last July.This afternoon, the IPCC announced it would carry out a "wholly independent" investigation into the incident involving officers from South Yorkshire police.This morning, South Yorkshire police said the officer at the centre of the claims - PC Anthony Mulhall - had been withdrawn from frontline duties from today. He has not been suspended, and denies wrongdoing.South Yorkshire police had said it was "satisfied" its officers had acted appropriately but would refer the matter to the IPCC.Nicholas Long, IPCC Commissioner for Yorkshire and Humberside, said: "I have seen the CCTV footage and decided it is in the public interest for a wholly independent investigation to be conducted."The investigation will examine whether the amount of force used during the arrest was justified.The film shows her being struck six times as she struggles with Mr Mulhall and other officers. At one stage a foot appears to be placed on her body.Mr Mulhall has admitted he hit her "as hard as I was physically able" but said he was acting in self-defence to subdue and handcuff her after extreme provocation.Ms Comer, from Sheffield, admits that she had been drinking and had become aggressive in the club. Outside in the carpark she damaged a car before she was arrested.Her parents spoke publicly about the incident today after she yesterday pleaded guilty to criminal damage, and was given a conditional discharge and was ordered to pay £250 compensation.Ms Comer, who has epilepsy and remembers nothing of the incident outside Niche nightclub, is taking a civil action against the force. Her lawyers say it caused her a "great deal of distress". The force's chief constable, Meredydd Hughes, said today that he first saw the footage last night and he was initially "horrified".However, he added that he had now seen more complete footage, which better established the context of the incident. Speaking to Sky News, he said there would be a full investigation but police officers were often in difficult circumstances and force was sometimes necessary.Ms Comer's father, Leroy Walcott, told Sky News that his daughter, who was 1.68m (5ft 6in) and 57kg (9st), had been beaten up.Mr Hughes said that he had been scarred during an altercation with a smaller woman than Ms Comer, adding that it "is not the size of the dog but the size of the fight in the dog".The footage shows Ms Comer and Mr Mulhall falling down a flight of stairs outside the nightclub, with the officer landing on top of her.In a statement obtained by the Guardian, Mr Mulhall described the incident, saying: "She now began to kick, spit and make attempts to bite me. As her hands became free, she tried to grab handfuls of my genitals and knee and kick me in the same place."At this point, I struck her as hard as I was physically able with my right fist in an attempt to subdue her. There was no effect, so I did it twice more."Ms Comer has said she was unaware of what had happened during the arrest until shown the film. "I was shocked when I first saw the film. I didn't think they'd do something like that. I didn't want to go out of the house after seeing it."She acknowledged the police would have been unaware of her medical condition and said that her father had told her that she could be aggressive during a fit. "But they should be aware of those types of illnesses. It's shocking what the police did to me - I wouldn't wish it on anyone."South Yorkshire police said it was outraged at suggestions the incident was racist.Ms Comer is black and Chief Superintendent Ali Dizaei, of the National Black Police Association, called last night for an investigation by the IPCC, saying that it was "absolutely" a concern that race may have been an issue.The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman and MP for Sheffield Hallam, Nick Clegg, said: "The violence in this footage is shocking, especially as it took place as several officers were holding down one woman ... Public confidence in the police at times like this can only be restored if an investigation is rapid, thorough and independent."Shami Chakrabarti, the director of the civil rights group Liberty, said: "These images turn the stomach and raise serious questions about police misconduct. The IPCC must investigate urgently in the knowledge that public confidence in modern policing and the police complaints system is at stake."However, the former Scotland Yard commander John O'Connor told GMTV: "This is a woman who is completely out of control. She has caused £250 worth of damage to somebody else's car, is completely out of her head, and they try and subdue her."There is no question of them using pepper sprays on her or using truncheons or whatever. They have tried to subdue her in the best way they can."