David Blunkett, the home secretary, last night announced a more far-reaching than expected reform of the law on rape as part his wholesale overhaul of Britain's Victorian laws on sex crimes.Legislation to be introduced in the new year will enact "an historic change" that will finally remove from the statute book the 19th-century homosexual offences of buggery, gross indecency and soliciting by men, under which famous figures including Oscar Wilde were imprisoned. The abolition of discrimination in the sex laws will be accompanied by much stronger measures against paedophiles, new child abuse offences including "grooming" children for sex abuse, and stronger powers to deal with child prostitution. "The law on sex offences is widely recognised as archaic, incoherent and discriminatory," Mr Blunkett said. "Much of it belongs in an age before the lightbulb or motor car yet we now live in a world of global communications, with children two clicks away from internet porn sites generated by a multimillion pound sex industry." The tougher laws on consent in rape cases will limit the number of accused men who walk free by convincing juries they honestly believed their victim had agreed to sex. The government's planned reform, unveiled yesterday in a white paper, Protecting the Public, will only allow the defence of "honest belief" in cases where that belief was reasonable. The change has long been urged by campaigners but was rejected by the sex offences review, the interdepartmental working party which recommended overhauling the sex laws two years ago. Under the reform, if there is reasonable doubt about whether the woman consented and the man failed to take reasonable steps to ensure she was willing, he will be guilty of rape. Mr Blunkett made clear yesterday that he did not consider it justice if the guilty walked free: "We do expect a defendant to show that his mistake was not only an honest one, but in the circumstances a reasonable one. I have no intention of asking anyone to keep a pen and paper by the bedside." But Martin Bowley QC, a member of the steering group for the sex offences review, said: "That will please the feminists and Women against Rape, but I'm not sure how many more convictions it will achieve." The government hopes the reforms will help to boost the rape conviction rate, down from 25% in 1985 to just 7% in 2000. A new statute will list a range of circumstances in which consent is presumed to be absent, including cases where the woman was unconscious or subjected to threats. If the prosecution proves one of those circumstances existed, it will be for the man to prove the woman agreed to sex. The definition of rape will be widened to include penetration of the anus, mouth or vagina by penis. But ministers have decided that "rape is rape" and there should be no separate, lesser offence of date rape. Nor has the government been swayed by arguments that defendants in rape cases should have anonymity, but it is "still prepared to listen to the arguments of those who feel strongly on the matter". Both the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats gave strong backing to the package outlined in the white paper, with the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, saying: "Subject to certain caveats [Mr Blunkett] appears to have found a reasonable way through what is by any standards a nasty thicket." The cross-party support may prove crucial to the chances of the reforms making it through the House of Lords. As the battles over adoption and section 28 show, gay sex law reform remains a highly controversial issue within the Tory party.