Critical levels of overcrowding are putting Britain's prisons at risk of violence, the head of the Prison Officers Association said yesterday.Brian Caton, the association's general secretary, said that "unrest is in the air", as the number of inmates in the system soared to yet another record high."Prison officers know about violence and have seen it escalate in the last 12 months," Mr Caton said. "I think we are in danger of all sorts of disruption. You can feel it in the air."With the England and Wales prison population on Tuesday standing at 79,247, an all-time record, some prison managers fear that the system could run out of space within a matter of weeks.The absolute maximum that the network can hold is 79,900.The home secretary, John Reid, has been keen to take a tough stance on crime and sentencing, but with the prison system almost full, his officials are considering moves to free some inmates 10 days early to create 500 more spaces.Last month, Mr Reid announced plans to build 8,000 new prison places, but they will not come on stream until 2012.The rise in the prison population is being fuelled in part by much tougher action against ex-prisoners who breach the terms of their release into the community once they have served part of their sentence.Home Office figures show that the number of offenders who have been recalled to custody has risen by 250% in four years, from 3,182 in 2000-01 to 11,081 in 2004-05.These "revolving door" offenders - so called because they are in and out of jail - now account for 11% of the prison population in England and Wales, and are a key hidden driver of the increase in prisoner numbers.The governor of one local prison told the Guardian that the proportion of prisoners in his jail who had been recalled for breaches had reached 15%. Ferdie Parker, governor of HMP Blakenhurst, near Redditch in Worcestershire, said: "We used to see about one or two breaches a week, but it's not unusual for us now to see 10 a week. Where we used to have about 40 in this jail, I would think we've probably got nearer 160-170 now. It's a significant increase."Blakenhurst has a "certified normal accommodation" of 827 but currently holds 1,070 prisoners - its absolute limit for "safe" detention.This increase is being compounded by a much tougher attitude towards those who fail to comply with the conditions of community sentences, such as community work orders or probation. The number of people jailed for breaching community sentences rose from 5,364 in 1994 to 7,018 in 2004, following repeated Home Office drives to tighten the rules.The Prison Reform Trust argues that many of those recalled to prison or jailed for breaching community punishments do not pose a threat to the public and need not necessarily be jailed. "There ought to be a more sophisticated way of ensuring compliance than just yanking them back to prison," said its director, Juliet Lyon. "It seems to us a very expensive way of operating the system. We have to begin seeing the prison system as a vital, scarce resource, rather than a social dustbin."Prison service figures show that only a quarter of those recalled to prison for breaches faced a further charge. The largest proportion, 30%, were considered "out of touch"; 18% were breached for problems with their behaviour; 8% for breaking the terms of where they should live; and 18% for "other reasons"."Everyone, politicians included, accepts there's a finite level to the number they can put in prison," said Phil Wheatley, director general of the prison service. "If they want to put some more people in, they need to build more prisons, or they can put fewer people in prison."Mr Wheatley said that imprisoning people who breached their licence was necessary under current sentencing arrangements. "If we are going to run those sort of sentences, there's a price to pay in terms of the prison population," he added.