The London-based trader whose trading scam cost the Swiss bank UBS £1.5bn has said banks are still exposed to such frauds because the financial industry has failed to mend its ways.Kweku Adoboli said traders faced the same pressures he experienced to make profits “no matter what”. He said bank bosses had not done enough to change their companies’ cultures and that the drive for profit encouraged bad behaviour.Adoboli was jailed in November 2012 for what police described as the biggest fraud in UK history after his secretive trades over three years nearly destroyed UBS. He was released in June 2015 after serving about half his seven-year sentence including time in custody.In interviews with the BBC, Adoboli said traders at investment banks were still under great pressure to generate big returns in an industry that is less profitable than it once was, creating incentives to break the rules.“I think the young people I’ve spoken to, former colleagues I have spoken to, are still struggling with the same issues, the same conflicts, the same pressures to achieve no matter what … If investment banks continue to chase the same level of profitability as they have in the past, the only way to generate those profits is to take more risk.”Adoboli said banks had not learned from the financial crisis, partly because bosses stay out of jail while relatively junior employees take the blame for the industry’s practices and are labelled as bad people.“The industry doesn’t learn … Perhaps there are bad people in the industry. I think it’s about culture. The culture is set at very senior levels of the industry. They [bosses] have as much responsibility for what the outcomes are as those pushing the buttons.”Some UK bank bosses, such as Fred Goodwin, lost their jobs during the financial crisis but few senior executives have been fined for their mistakes and none has gone to prison.The Financial Conduct Authority dropped an inquiry into banking culture last year after the regulator’s hardline chief executive was ousted by the former chancellor George Osborne. The FCA denied it had gone soft on the banks and that it had faced pressure from the Treasury to ditch the review.Kweku Adoboli trial: stark human drama amid the financial jargon Adoboli joined UBS as a trainee in 2003 after graduating from the University of Nottingham. He started off administering trades before moving up to deal in futures contracts.He lodged profits in a secret account, which he called the umbrella, and drip-fed them on to the books, but in 2011 market turmoil caused losses that he tried to recover with further unsuccessful bets.Adoboli said he was sorry for his actions but that his motivation was not personal gain. He was found guilty of two counts of fraud but was acquitted on four separate charges of false accounting.The government is seeking to deport Adoboli to Ghana but he said he would not be able to work effectively for reform in the City if he was sent back to the country of his birth.