Does Helen Goddard really exist or was she invented by Penthouse? You know: Helen Goddard, the Jazz Lady. The one who's just gone to prison for having an affair with a schoolgirl.She is blonde and thin, plays the trumpet and goes both ways. Not only does she go both ways, the person she went Route One with was a sort-of pop star: Jonathan Ansell previously in G4.Not only does she play the trumpet, she is "a trumpet mistress". Was there ever a ruder-sounding description in the English language? It's like something you'd find pinned in a phone box. "TRUMPET MISTRESS, 26. CALL ME AND I'LL TEACH YOU HOW TO BLOW."Not only is she blonde and thin, a trumpet mistress who goes both ways, she is now in a women's prison. I'm quite sure I once read that photo-story in one of my dad's old soft porn mags.(I would like to emphasise that my dad did not keep soft porn mags in a shoebox under the bed, like a weirdo. He kept them in his cuttings file, like a writer. He wrote the sort of articles that other men could pretend they bought the magazines for, about cars and cigarettes and why James Bond played baccarat. Meanwhile, my brother and I got an early sex education from leafing through photo-spreads of randy French hitchhikers, keen nude sunbathers and trumpet mistresses in women's prisons. It did us no harm.) (I remain unmarried.)We can't help but be revolted by any tales of older people having sex with minors, yet this one is a real curio. A court has ruled that the couple are in love. Judge Anthony Pitts sent the Jazz Lady to prison for 15 months, but agreed she may retain contact with her schoolgirl lover, write regular letters and meet again on release.What sort of crime is that? Goddard has done something so wrong that she must be jailed, but so right that it must continue at the first available opportunity. Judges never tell burglars: "You are sentenced to prison, but you may plan your next robbery from there, such break-in to be conducted with my blessing in January 2011."Besides, how did the court conclude that this was love? Official, court-sanctioned love! This world is full of people, millions of people, who would give anything to take their relationships into the dock and find out once and for all."Consider Exhibit A: a text message in which the defendant writes, 'I miss you' but doesn't put any kisses on it.""The witness, Signor Toni from Toni's Old-Time Trattoria, will give evidence that the accused sat through an entire anniversary meal without once meeting the victim's eye."And the verdict is... nah, not the real thing. Move on, girlfriend!In this case, we know very little about the victim, other than that she is a teenage girl who went for jazz lessons. That in itself was misguided. Jazz can't be taught. You have to feel it, man…In disapproval, we imagine her to be a particularly vulnerable child, a late developer, seeking guidance and emotional support from a teacher who vaulted what should be a concrete border between caretaking and inappropriate intimacy. This is what the schoolgirl's parents mean when they say that the Jazz Lady betrayed "our daughter's need for her to maintain safe boundaries".It may well be true that most cases of teacher/pupil affairs boil down to exactly this abrogation of responsibility to the lonely or undersocialised child. But, funnily enough, not in my experience. When I was at school, it was the coolest girls, the most mature and confident, who had affairs with teachers.As they passed through puberty, realising their own beauty and burgeoning power, certain girls started flirting with the staff. What sort of teacher would actually have an affair under those circumstances? Only one who is himself (or herself) so screwed-up, so lacking in confidence and self-esteem, so inexperienced and imperceptive about social and romantic matters, that they seize gratefully on flirtation from any quarter at all, fearing lovers their own age and failing to recognise this inappropriate "relationship" as a game played by someone who, having youth on her side, will always hold the advantage.Meanwhile, I, a teenager who suffered from textbook late development and low self-esteem, hit a terrible stumbling block in the sixth form when a couple of teachers invited us to use their Christian names.Call a teacher by her first name! Quite impossible! I wouldn't dare presume such intimacy. God knows how fast I would have run in the opposite direction if any of them had actually made a pass at me.I doubt I would have the self-confidence to sleep with a schoolteacher to this day. Or a policeman. If I live to be 100, I won't be ready to consider myself their equal.So, the parents of the Jazz Lady's "victim" should perhaps be comforted by the possibility that their daughter is stronger than they know. For all her pop-star exes and brassy instruments, Helen Goddard is probably the one who fears other people, hunches from low self-esteem and fails in social situations; if she were otherwise, she would have found romance somewhere healthier than her own classroom.When the Jazz Lady comes scurrying out of prison, high on the judge's permission to jump straight back into this court-certified love affair, will the schoolgirl still be waiting? I wonder. Five years from now, will the schoolgirl see this lonely music teacher who fell in love with a pupil as anything other than pitiful? Hard to imagine.She is only 15 and absolutely should not have been touched. But she is only 15 and whether she knows it yet or not – and I suspect she might – she has all the power. She has no reason to lack confidence. Sooner or later, with or without a teacher, she will know how to blow her own trumpet. 