Sara Payne closed her eyes and prayed; her quest for justice hinged on a single word. The mother's hopes of 'guilty' would shortly be answered, but there was little triumphalism in her wearied expression.In the dying light of a winter's evening shortly before Christmas 2001, Sara stood on the steps of Lewes Crown Court and looked crushed. 'Justice has been done. Sarah can rest in peace now,' she quietly told the media scrum shortly after Roy Whiting was convicted of abducting and murdering her eight-year-old daughter.Then, no one would have dared entertain the notion that a man the trial judge called 'every parents' nightmare' could ever mount an appeal against his sentence. But now The Observer can reveal that Roy Whiting has lodged a legal challenge that could see his 50-year sentence, imposed by then Home Secretary David Blunkett, dramatically reduced. Based upon internal Home Office documents, the appeal alleges that Blunkett was driven by political rather than solely judicial motives when trying to ensure that the former car mechanic from Crawley, West Sussex, would never be allowed back into society.The case, already lodged at central London's Administrative Court, is being brought by leading law firm Irwin Mitchell. Legal experts say it serves as a cautionary tale on the dangers of allowing politicians to interfere in the judicial process. Sarah's grandfather, Terry Payne, said that he was 'stunned' by the revelation. The move could see Whiting's tariff almost halved.Central to Whiting's case are allegations that Blunkett's decision was motivated by a personal desire to set the convicted paedophile's tariff. In sentencing Whiting to at least half a century in prison, he rejected the Lord Chief Justice's recommendation of 28 years.In the wake of Whiting's conviction, the Home Office had faced intense pressure to respond to a concerted tabloid newspaper campaign led by the News of the World. The campaign for 'Sarah's Law' demanded that parents be given the right to be told about information on paedophiles in their neighbourhood.Home Office documents given to the court are understood to reveal Blunkett's 'anxiety' to personally fix Whiting's sentence before he lost his powers as Home Secretary to determine minimum jail terms for murderers.Almost a year after Whiting was convicted, the News of the World revealed that Blunkett had sentenced Sarah Payne's killer to 50 years in prison, one of the longest tariffs imposed in the history of the British legal system. The following day - 25 November 2002 - the Law Lords ruled that the Home Secretary be stripped of his power to impose sentences for murderers.Their ruling came in an appeal brought by Anthony Anderson, convicted in 1998 of murder. The then Home Secretary, Jack Straw, fixed the period he had to serve at five years higher than the judiciary's recommendation of 15 years. The Law Lords ruled that the Home Secretary's powers to sentence convicted murderers was incompatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. Whiting thus became the last person to have his tariff set by a politician.A briefing prepared by Whiting's lawyers states: 'The Home Secretary wished to set the tariff himself before any changes for responsibility of setting tariffs were removed as a result of the Anderson law.'At the time the Home Office said the timing of Blunkett's announcement on Whiting was coincidental, a version of events that will now be challenged. Last night, a Home Office spokesman said: 'The then Home Secretary made the decision by using his powers at the time based solely on the evidence presented to him.'The afternoon Sara Payne stood ashen-faced outside Lewes Crown Court was supposed to have brought closure to the mother, a year and 193 days after Whiting abducted her child from a cornfield beside her grandparents' home at Kingston Gorse, West Sussex. Sarah Payne was a name few parents would forget. While pictures of the wistful-looking Sarah became embedded in the public consciousness, Whiting, with his gap-toothed grimace and haunting stare, became the embodiment of the 'monsters' in our midst.Ministers resisted calls for Sarah's Law, even when the News of the World underlined its intent by publishing photographs of paedophiles who had failed to sign on to the sex offenders' register. In the hysteria that followed, mobs were reported attacking paediatricians amid fears of vigilante justice. Terry Payne, Sarah's father, said last week that men like Whiting did not deserve the chance of freedom, or even life itself: 'They let these guys out of prison without any supervision. "There you go sunshine, away you go," they say. It has happened before and it will happen again. These guys have to be put away. These people should be drowned.'When the News of the World broke the news that Whiting would spend 50 years in prison, Blunkett's motive seemed clear; he would remain in prison until he was 93. Few inmates make it beyond 90. As the newspaper hailed a moral victory, Sara wrote that now she could 'finally step out of Whiting's shadow.'Whiting never stalked Sarah Payne. The two had not met before a tragic quirk of fate would bring them together one warm evening at the start of the school summer holidays. Sarah had been playing hide and seek with her brothers and sister when, after falling, she decided to make the short trip through a cornfield to her grandparents' home. She stumbled into Whiting, who forced her into his van, which would later be described as resembling a sealed prison cell. Inside were the tools of abduction, a rope and nylon-tie handcuffs.Sarah's naked body was found 16 days later in a shallow grave by the A29, a 20-minute drive from the cornfield where she was snatched. 'It's terrible, absolutely terrible,' Terry Payne said. 'I can see the field from where I sit. There's only one way in and one way out from where we live and that's past the field. The pain will never go away.'Even with Whiting imprisoned, the loss of their daughter would ultimately prove too much for Sarah's parents. After 18 years together, their marriage failed to survive the overwhelming guilt and neverending questions. What if they had not gone to the coast that night? What if they had not left the children alone for those brief few minutes on the beach? How could Whiting have been allowed back into society after attacking a young girl years earlier as she played in a Sussex street?Moments after Whiting was convicted, the jury heard he had served just over half of a four-year sentence for bundling a nine-year-old into the back of his car, threatened her with a knife and indecently assaulted her in 1995. It also emerged that he was among the first people to be placed on the sex offenders' register, which now has almost 29,000 names. But what really stunned Sara Payne was news that Whiting had been released early after a psychiatrist had told the judge in the 1995 attack that he was 'not a paedophile'. Pressure was mounting for Sarah's Law. Somehow, the punitive instincts of the tabloid press, for whom Whiting was public enemy number one, would have to be sated.On face value, he seemed the client no lawyer would touch with a bargepole. Yet in the smart Sheffield offices of respected law firm Irwin Mitchell, his case seemed more than a little intriguing. In fact, Blunkett's intervention with the Whiting case had long been a source of fierce debate, and in some quarters disquiet, among lawyers for some time.Elements of the judiciary felt that the Home Secretary had overstepped the mark and concerns arose that a politician should never have been involved in deciding the sentence of a man so vilified by much of the media. Surely such a move, they argued, contaminated the process of justice.Certainly, the timing of the News of the World article had not gone unnoticed. Privately, Whiting had become the latest source of tension between the judiciary and Parliament. Very public clashes between the then Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolfe, and Blunkett over politicians' involvement in the judicial process would follow. Woolfe would have been entitled to have felt snubbed by Blunkett's over Whiting. After all, his recommendation of 28 years in jail was in itself a remarkably long sentence when the normal tariff of a 'life' sentence is on average half that. Blunkett however believed that life should mean precisely that.It is understood that internal Home Office documents recognised that recommending 'life' for Whiting could raise the prospect of Sarah Payne's killer launching an appeal, an acutely embarrassing scenario for a Home Secretary eager to dispense an uncompromising message regarding one of the most reviled men in Britain. Instead, Blunkett chose a 50-year sentence that would effectively ensure Whiting would never be set free.As lawyers prepared the case on behalf of Whiting, other interesting questions concerning Blunkett's decision would emerge. There is concern over his meetings with Sara Payne before Whiting was sentenced. One legal source said: 'It would be remarkable if a judge met a party to a case privately then proceeded to deal with the case. That is what happened here.'Historically, Parliament had been notified where a Home Secretary planned to introduce a higher 'tariff band'. Lawyers believe that the revelation in the News of the World is a uniquely eccentric approach. Sources add that Blunkett did not notify Whiting of his intention to serve such a draconian tariff. Traditionally, Home Secretaries have advised convicted criminals of their intention, but, if Whiting had objected, Blunkett, who is cited in court documents as being increasingly aware of the impending Law Lords judgment which would remove his powers, could have missed the chance to set Whiting's sentence.Whether Whiting can ever be rehabilitated or deemed safe enough to be returned into society is a matter for the distant future. Sources at the Administrative Court said the case would not be made a 'priority'. Eventually, his appeal will be passed on to a single judge who will decide whether to lower his sentence and, if so, by how much.For Sara Payne, life is steadily improving. Galvanised by the birth of her daughter, Ellie, two years ago, she remains resolute that Sarah's Law should be adopted by the government. Before Blunkett's intervention, however, her main concern was that her children would be around the day Whiting was released.'My biggest fear was he'd be released when my children were starting families of their own,' she said at the time of his sentencing. At the time it seemed untenable, but suddenly her nightmare has become a possibility.The Sarah Payne case1 July 2000 Sarah Payne disappears from her grandparents' home in Kingston Gorse, Sussex.2 July Roy Whiting, a known paedo-phile, is arrested for the first time. He is later released on police bail.17 July Police start a murder hunt after finding Sarah's body near Pulborough.31 July Whiting is arrested for a second time and, again, released on police bail.6 February 2001 Whiting is arrested for a third time and charged with murder.12 December Whiting jailed for life.24 November 2002 Home Secretary David Blunkett says Whiting must serve a minimum of 50 years.25 June 2004 Convicted murderer, Rickie Tregaskis found guilty of a razor attack on Whiting. During the Tregaskis trial, Whiting admitted for the first time to killing Sarah Payne.