Alarming lapses in the monitoring of two violent offenders who were released from secure hospitals to murder three people have been revealed by inquiries into the killings, the Guardian has learned.The revelations about the supervision of Peter Bryan, a paranoid schizophrenic who killed two people after being released from a secure unit, and John Barrett, who stabbed a man to death after being released, have angered victims' families.But the shortcomings are not isolated incidents. The Home Office said yesterday there was an ongoing problem with the monitoring of violent offenders with mental health problems after they had been released.According to Home Office guidance quarterly reports on these offenders, known as restricted patients, should be submitted to the home secretary by social workers and psychiatrists. But they are not always submitted."It is definitely a problem at the moment," said a Home Office spokesman. "It is an ongoing battle to get the reports. We are not denying there is a problem."There are currently 1,400 restricted patients on release in England and Wales. About 180 are returned to secure hospitals each year, some because monitoring has failed and they have reoffended.The admissions about monitoring failures came as leaks of a report into the murder of the millionaire financier John Monckton raised questions about the monitoring of violent offenders.According to the Observer, an inquiry into Mr Monckton's murder by Damien Hanson, a man with a lengthy criminal record, reveals probation staff failed to prepare vital risk assessments that would have highlighted the threat he posed.Confidential information seen by the Guardian into inquiries conducted into the cases of Bryan and Barrett reveals that if correct procedures had been followed the murder victims would probably still be alive today. Both inquiries are due to be published later this year. In the first case Bryan, who had previously murdered a woman and spent several years in Rampton, was released from a secure unit with restrictions under the Mental Health Act 1983. Only three reports from his social worker were submitted to the Home Office in two years after his release.The Home Office says it has a system in place to chase up missing reports but it does not appear to have worked in Bryan's case. His social worker, Roland Silcott, had told the Home Office that Bryan posed no further threat to the public. But in February 2004 Bryan killed Brian Cherry, cut off both his arms and one of his legs and fried his brains in butter. Nine weeks later while detained in Broadmoor he murdered a fellow patient, Richard Loudwell.In the case of Barrett, who was released from a secure unit after stabbing a nurse and two patients at an outpatient clinic, monitoring was also inadequate. Barrett went for periods of 10, 11 and 13 weeks without seeing the psychiatrist he was supposed to see each month.Barrett was admitted to Springfield hospital in south-west London in September 2004 but was allowed to go out for an hour, failed to return and the following day murdered Denis Finnegan.Sane, the mental health charity, estimates that about 40 murders a year are carried out by people in contact with mental health services. The admission by the Home Office that about 180 people a year are returned to secure hospitals, some as a result of reoffending, suggests the monitoring system, the aim of which is to ensure health and social care professionals can intervene before reoffending occurs, is not working as well as it should.