They might not have been very good at building cars, but the four directors who sucked MG Rover dry certainly had a way with words. Only a bunch of former car dealers could have decided that "project slag" was a good name for a tax evasion strategy. It also took some chutzpah to install software called "evidence eliminator" to purge computer hard drives just before the inspectors turned up. Even the wider plot to line their own pockets at Rover's expense – project Platinum – had a nice ring to it.These and other horrors revealed in Friday's 856-page report into the collapse of what was once Britain's biggest carmaker have the power to shock even now – nearly a decade after the so-called Phoenix Four first took to the air. We thought we had seen every trick in the book already, but the government inspectors found ever more complex methods of syphoning off cash from the ailing manufacturer and into the hands of its putative rescuers. If only the financial engineering had been matched by the mechanical engineering. Despite the righteous anger directed at the Phoenix Four, the bigger tragedy was, and still is, the collapse of one of Britain's biggest and most important manufacturing companies. While Germany and Britain fight this weekend to preserve jobs at the European subsidiaries of General Motors, the ghost of a much larger domestic car marque is turning in its grave.For years, Rover and its predecessor Leyland, were dogged by what became known as "the British disease": an infamous mix of toxic industrial relations, unreliable products and poor productivity. When BMW first stepped in to buy Rover, it thought it could import German standards of industrial management. To some extent, they succeeded – as the continued success of the new BMW Mini demonstrates. But mostly, BMW was left with a sour taste after watching the dowry it left Rover's new owners squirreled away for their own benefit – confirming all of the worst stereotypes that Germans often hold about the way business is conducted in Britain.The triumph of crooked salesmen, accountants, lawyers and politicians over the interests of enduring industrial businesses is the new British disease.