The home secretary, David Blunkett, used his Labour party conference speech today to promise a crackdown on sex offenders and to get thousands more police officers on the beat.Mr Blunkett told delegates in Blackpool, "today I am announcing a new programme: sex offenders will have to register annually" rather than once every five years as at present. He said it would now be required not only to know "who they are but where they are". Mr Blunkett added that "those [offenders] who come in from abroad will have to register, we will work with other countries ... anyone who breaks this provision we will make sure they leave the country." British people who commit sex offences abroad would also now have to register on their return or face expulsion, he said.But he rejected calls for a US-style "Megan's law" where the sex offenders register is open to the public. He said that for the first time there were representatives from communities who were consulted by police about paedophiles in particular areas."But we cannot open the sex offenders register to the vigilantes who do not understand the difference between pediatricians and paedophiles," he said referring to an incident where a vigilante confused the two and beat up a pediatrician.Mr Blunkett also said he had decided to set a higher target for police recruitment.The Home Office had already set a target of raising police numbers to 130,000 by next spring. However, Mr Blunkett confirmed today that the strength would be increased still further to provide a more visible presence. He said: "We will ensure that they are on the beat, out there, visible, available for everyone to see the results of a Labour government investing in a police service that is reformed and working."And with 4,000 community support officers by 2005 working alongside them in the community, with up to 3,000 forensic scientists working with us using the new DNA testing and with the crime reduction partnerships, the community safety partnerships at local level, investing in CCTV . . . we can tackle crime together. Mr Blunkett defended the reclassification of cannabis but announced "a drive against hard drug dealing" to counter the "scourge of heroin, crack, cocaine and ecstasy - the drugs that put communities at risk".Turning to the issue of refugees, he told delegates that he listened at the last Labour party conference to appeals to end the much-maligned system of benefits vouchers for asylum seekers and had done this in April. Mr Blunkett said the television footage of asylum seekers clandestinely getting into the country "frightened people into believing we were being overwhelmed: we were not". But he said new equipment at French ports would help stop illegal asylum seekers coming through France to Britain. He said that action had to be taken to stop illegal immigrants working for less than the minimum wage - "destroying what the trade union had worked so hard for".