Is any weekend now complete without a senior policeman complaining about a lack of resources or making a grab for more powers?Sir Ian Blair, the Metropolitan police commissioner, is one of the more thoughtful breed of chief officer. But this week, there he was on the media megaphone, pleading for ID cards and new legislation that might outlaw "acts preparatory to terrorism". Like his predecessor Sir John Stevens, the Met commissioner seems to have an open invite to lobby for whatever new abandonment of civil liberties happens to take his fancy at any particular time.And the reaction from a political establishment, intoxicated by the heady brew that is the "war on terror", is always the same. If a "top cop" says that new laws are necessary, then they must be. As our distrust of party politicians grows more intense, the senior policeman has ascended to the role of moral guardian and respected sage.When Steve Green, chief constable of Nottinghamshire, declared that he had too few resources to investigate all the gun crime in his county, politicians struggled to defend themselves. When, a fortnight ago, Richard Brunstrom, the chief constable of North Wales, criticised a Conservative advertisement on crime, he, and not the Tories, had the upper hand. The senior police cadre may be public officials, but they have status and a sort of celebrity - and increasingly they are not afraid to flex their muscles in public.The comments of Ian Blair, as the most senior of them, resonate the most. Perhaps it is hardly surprising that police officers, or security officials or even civil servants lobby for more powers. Any body of people will seize upon measures that make their jobs easier or enhance their influence. Within the Home Office there are officials forever "thinking the unthinkable" about the relationship between the individual and the state. Social security experts continually ponder what millions might be saved if only they could gain routine access to more personal information about claimants. Many journalists would jump at the chance to have a look at a public figure's tax return, listen in on cabinet meetings or to connect to the Scotland Yard database. All of us like to push the envelope in our different fields.It is therefore essential that someone strikes the balance between the aspirations of any interest or professional group and what will benefit society as a whole - and this clearly has to be the role of elected politicians. But in prosecuting the "war on terror", too many politicians appear to have abdicated that responsibility. Presented with any argument, however dubious, that a measure is necessary to combat terrorism, their critical faculties collapse.So when Sir John Stevens climbs on to a soapbox built for him by the News of the World to argue that we should "forget human rights" and continue the indefinite detention of people unconvicted of any offence, his words are treated as a sermon from the mount - instead of a pitch from an interested party.When, in the midst of a general election, Ian Blair tells David Frost that ID cards are needed to crack the "very loose-knit conspiracies" targeting Britain - and Alan Milburn responds with a promise that Labour, if re-elected, will re-introduce an ID cards bill as "a major priority" - we see how the tail now wags the dog.This debate needs re-calibrating. We know that the threat of terrorism is real. There clearly are people intent on causing an atrocity in Britain. The police and security services tell us they have already foiled a number of attempts and for that we must be grateful. Law enforcers should clearly not be hampered by unnecessary restrictions that undermine their effectiveness.But at the same time, we must decide whether we are really prepared to jettison the civil liberties and traditions of justice and fairness built up over centuries in the hope that such concessions will somehow keep us safe. We could accede to the demands of the security and policing lobby for more control orders, more immigration checks, more intrusive documentation and a lower burden of proof and still find ourselves unable to stop some lunatic taking a rucksack full of explosives on to the tube during rush hour. And what then? There would be calls for even more anti-terrorist powers, even more legislation sweeping away the rights of the citizen.We need a real political debate, led by those elected to make laws in keeping with the wishes and mood of the country. The police have a right to contribute to that discussion, but their role is clear. They are employed to run their forces effectively and fight crime. Chief constables' soundbites make for great weekend headlines, but if they want to make laws, set the political agenda and fundamentally change the way we live our lives, they need to get themselves elected.· hugh.muir@theguardian.com