Vanessa George, the Plymouth nursery worker who abused children and took camera phone images to send to friends on Facebook, will be sentenced next month. However, another sentence is proposed for the tens of thousands of nursery workers across the country: a ban on camera phones at work.A mother whose children attended George's nursery has set up a campaign, nocameraphones.org, calling for nursery staff to lock up their phones and only be allowed access during their breaks; apparently 23 nurseries have signed up to this policy so far. Camera phone regulations are being hastily written. Plymouth City council has promised to issue "a written policy for nurseries" covering "advice on the use of cameras" and the teachers' and nursery staff union Voice is calling for a "no-mobiles rule" in nurseries.Already, some nurseries are confiscating mobiles from their staff as they enter the door, and another has moved the lockers away from the nursery area so that staff are unable to hear their phones ring.This is a familiar pattern: one case of depravity and criminality leads, like clockwork, to a new set of regulations for everybody. One twisted woman's use of a camera phone to photograph her abuse means that all nursery workers are frisked for mobiles.Yet surely, somebody devious enough to abuse a series of children during work hours, without others seeing, would be devious enough to conceal her camera phone from view, which requires only putting it in a pocket. Others have suggested putting CCTV cameras in nurseries – but CCTV cameras cannot cover every corner of the nursery. So how about metal detectors? Tagging staff? Rules that staff cannot be left alone with children? If we try to organise nurseries around the assumption that every nursery worker could be Vanessa George, we will end up with horrifying fortresses.The vast majority of children have happy and fulfilling times at their nursery. They need staff to be relaxed with them, and they also need videos and photography so their parents know what they have been doing in the day. "The use of digital cameras and videos are an integral part of nursery practice", says Purnima Tanuku, chief executive of the National Day Nurseries Association, "It is vital that nurseries are not discouraged from using these."These calls for general regulations also let the woman in the dock off the hook. They make her crime, somehow, the fault of lax "child safeguarding procedures", which were not sufficiently strict and did not specifically regulate the use of camera phones. It makes it less her fault, and more the fault of the rules.Yet if anything, George's case shows the failure of tick-box child protection procedures. The Ofsted inspection gave her nursery "good" ratings in all areas, including "protecting children from harm or neglect". George herself was vetted and had passed all the tests. No doubt the nursery had the appropriate "safeguarding policies" in place; they may even have had a 'policy' on the use of cameras.Vanessa George's actions were highly unusual, which is why they were so shocking and can be firmly punished. The sentence should be imposed on her, not on thousands of nursery workers and the children in their care.