In the wake of the conviction this week at Bristol crown court of taxi driver Chris Halliwell for the murder of Becky Godden, there has been much anger expressed over what happened to the detective, Steve Fulcher, who obtained a confession from Halliwell that was deemed inadmissible as he had not yet been given access to a lawyer. This not only allowed Halliwell initially to escape justice for Godden’s murder but also led to Fulcher’s career being derailed; he was found to have committed misconduct, was given a final written warning, resigned from the police and now works as a security consultant in Somalia.It would be hard not to feel both sympathy and admiration for Fulcher. He was faced with Halliwell, one of the most odious and devious of killers. Fulcher was clearly driven by the best of motives, and there must be questions asked as to whether the disciplinary process to which he was subjected could have been handled with greater understanding. We have all watched television dramas in which a maverick cop’s efforts to nail an evil villain are negated on a technicality by some pen-pushing senior officer, but it would be a mistake to imagine that because of this one highly emotive case that the rules introduced by the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act should be scrapped or weakened.Chris Halliwell officer in talks with police forces over serial killer fears Turn the clock back to the 1970s when the art of “verballing” – attributing incriminating words to a defendant – was endemic. This was seen as “noble cause corruption” and often justified on the grounds that too many criminals were getting away with crimes thanks to their slippery solicitors and use of loopholes in the law. The verbals gradually became increasingly sophisticated, moving on from the traditional “it’s a fair cop, guv” to more convincing lines such as “you’ll never prove it” or “who ratted on us?”One former crime reporter who worked in east London in the 1970s recounted to me this tale: a local solicitor who had a client in custody came into the police station and left a Daily Mirror and a toothbrush for him with a detective. Inside the Mirror, the lawyer had written “Charlie, under no circumstances say anything”. The detective duly bought another copy of the paper and wrote “Charlie, it’s all right, I’ve straightened everything out for you. Tell them everything they want to know.” When the lawyer came back four hours later and said, “Can I see my client?” he was told: “Yes you can, but he’s admitted the offence and 15 other TICs [taken into consideration].”All very Life on Mars and uncontroversial, perhaps, when chummy was a professional criminal. But when the suspect is a young, vulnerable, suggestible soul with learning difficulties who says whatever he thinks would please a detective, the reasons for the introduction of the rules become clear. Of the many miscarriages of justice that emerged from that era, a significant number were the result of “confessions” from suspects who had been denied access to a lawyer.Halliwell will be sentenced later this week but he is already serving life for the murder of Sian O’Callaghan. In was during the investigation of her disappearance that he admitted to Fulcher that he had also killed Godden. Fulcher has argued that he believed O’Callaghan could still have been alive at the time, which was why he questioned Halliwell without giving him the chance to talk to a lawyer. But while there was enough other evidence to obtain a conviction in O’Callaghan’s case, the Godden confession could not be used in court.In 2014, Fulcher was duly criticised by the Independent Police Complaints Commission for failing to follow the rules and found guilty of misconduct. The IPCC described his actions as “catastrophic” and concluded that “it is not possible to determine what may or may not have happened if Mr Halliwell had been immediately conveyed to custody. The Police and Criminal Evidence Act and its codes of practice are not optional. They are a fundamental part of the criminal justice process and exist to ensure the rights of suspects, and therefore the integrity of the whole process, are protected.”Fulcher, understandably, feels both justified in his action and dismayed by what happened to his career, over which he was taunted in court by Halliwell. He said after the verdict: “When the extraordinary facts of this case are explained, it is likely to lead to a public crisis in the competence and credibility of the police service.” But sympathy for a diligent detective should not be allowed to obscure the fact that the rules were changed to protect not just the vulnerable but the very credibility of the police service itself.