The teenager Anthony Walker was killed in a racially motivated murder by a single blow from a long-handled ice axe for no other reason than the colour of his skin, a court heard yesterday.There were gasps from Mr Walker's family in the public gallery as the 60cm (2ft) axe, wrapped in plastic, was shown to the jury. His mother, Gee Walker, bowed her head. Someone muttered: "Jesus." The jury were later shown a 3D computerised animation recreating the angle at which the axe struck the left side of Mr Walker's head.Michael Barton, 17, from Huyton, Merseyside, the younger brother of the Manchester City footballer Joey Barton, denies murdering the 18-year-old and conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm.Preston crown court, sitting in Liverpool, heard how in July Mr Walker was standing at a bus stop in Huyton with his arm around his white 17-year-old girlfriend, Louise Thompson, accompanied by his cousin Marcus Binns, 18. The two men were subjected to racist abuse from a group of men outside the Huyton Park pub across the road. The prosecution said Mr Walker's girlfriend recalled one of the men using the words "niggers" and "coons".The man had turned to his friends in the car park and shouted, "See how fast you can go." Mr Binns, who had an afro hairstyle at the time, remembered the group shouting "microphone head" and "Michael Jackson" at him as he was combing his hair in the reflection of a phone box. Mr Walker had shouted back, "We're only waiting for the bus and then we're going." His cousin had not responded to the taunts. One of the men shouted, "Walk nigger, walk." Sensing trouble, the trio walked on to the next bus stop towards Huyton village.Barton's co-accused, his 20-year-old cousin Paul Taylor, also from Huyton, changed his plea to guilty of murder on Tuesday afternoon. Yesterday Neil Flewitt, prosecuting, told the court: "Both Paul Taylor and Michael Barton are white, as is Louise Thompson. Anthony Walker and Marcus Binns are both black. It is the prosecution case that ... Paul Taylor, Michael Barton and others decided to pursue Anthony Walker and Marcus Binns for no other reason other than the colour of their skin."Mr Flewitt said they had pursued the three from the bus stop opposite the pub with the intention of causing them grievous bodily harm. "Although Marcus Binns and Louise Thompson were able to run away and escape their attackers, Anthony Walker was not so lucky," he said.The prosecution claims the single fatal blow was struck by Taylor "with considerable force", but the weapon had been provided by Michael Barton. "It is also the prosecution case that the killing of Anthony Walker was racially motivated," Mr Flewitt added. He said neither Mr Walker nor Mr Binns had shown any aggression towards those shouting abuse at them or their friends.As the trio walked away from the bus stop, they were pursued by a Peugeot 406, travelling at speed without its lights on. Fearing they were being followed, they took a short cut through McGoldrick Park on an unlit path. Louise was so scared she asked her boyfriend to walk between her and the bushes, the court heard.As the group neared the park's exit, they were ambushed by a group of three or four men who appeared to have been hiding. Louise fled and ran towards Huyton police station. Mr Binns also ran in a different direction, and eventually knocked on a neighbour's door to seek help. When he returned to the park with the householder and his son, they found Mr Walker lying on the path with an ice axe embedded in his head. He died in hospital six hours later.On the night of the murder, a witness saw Taylor scratching something on the Huyton Park pub sign. His nickname, Chomper, was later found next to a swastika motif on the sign. After the murder, the pair fled the scene and abandoned their car at another pub, the court heard. They left Merseyside in a black Vauxhall Vectra and drove south, catching a P&O ferry from Dover to Calais at 6am the next day. They then drove on to Amsterdam. While they were abroad, Mr Barton phoned his footballer brother to say, "Listen, I was there but I didn't kill him. It was Chomper - Chomper killed him." They returned to Liverpool accompanied by their parents and detectives on August 3.Mr Flewitt told the court Mr Walker had suffered a "massive traumatic disintegration" of his brain. A pathologist found the axe had punched a hole through his skull and penetrated the tissue to a depth of 6cm to 7cm, and must have been delivered with considerable force. Two wounds were found on his left hand where he had attempted to fend off the attack.In police interviews, Mr Barton claimed he had been confronted by Mr Walker and his cousin and felt humiliated that he had been "threatened by a black lad and had been forced to back off".The trial, which is expected to last a fortnight, continues.