Detectives investigating a house fire that killed six members of the same family are treating the deaths as murder, police have said. Sabah Usmani, 44, her sons Muneeb, nine, and Rayyan, six, and daughter Hira, 12, died in the blaze in the early hours of 15 October at their home in Barn Mead, Harlow, Essex. A third son, Sohaib, 11, and daughter Maheen, three, died later in hospital. Usmani's husband, Abdul Shakoor, was the only survivor.Essex police said: "Evidence from fire scientists has indicated that the likely cause of the fire was malicious ignition. Detectives know there was a burglary at the house on the same evening/early morning of the fire and are re-appealing for information and witnesses."A police spokesman said that from the start of the investigation, named Operation Shakespeare, detectives from the Kent and Essex serious crime directorate had treated the incident as a suspicious.He added: "A dedicated team of detectives and specialist police officers and staff have undertaken intensive inquiries looking at all aspects of this case. They are working round the clock to establish how the fire started and who was responsible."Senior investigating officer Det Supt Rob Vinson said: "This is now a murder investigation. We believe that someone burgled the house and then caused a fire that took the lives of six innocent people."Someone knows something about this incident and for whatever reason has not come forward to tell police what they saw or know."Please search your conscience for the sake of those five young children and their mother. This is an unprecedented case in the history of Essex police and we will do everything we can to solve this tragedy."Dr Shakoor has had to find the strength to cope with this terrible tragedy. No one can imagine the pain of losing your whole family in such a horrible way. I need to find answers. I need the public to tell me what happened on that night."Shakoor discovered the fire at his home and battled hard to save his family, suffering the effects of the dense smoke and also minor burns as he tried to get them out.At the same time as fire crews were tackling the blaze, a Ford Focus car was alight in a parking area nearby.Vinson said: "I need the public's help and appeal for information about people who were in the area and about items taken in the burglary."Shakoor's laptop bag which contained a two-pin lead was originally found in a hedge along the footpath between St Michael's Close and Whitewaits, Harlow by two teenagers, then abandoned in Whitewaits by some garages. "Do you know how the laptop bag came to be abandoned in the hedge?" Vinson askedThe family laptop, a Toshiba Satellite, is missing. "Have you been offered a laptop such as this since 15 October?"Anyone with information is urged to contact the Operation Shakespeare investigation team on 01277 266869 or 0800 056 0944 or on scdappealsessex.pnn.police.uk or via Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555111.