The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday March 29 2007In the article below, we stated in error that the most common cause of death for women under the age of 44 was domestic violence, and that this was greater than both cancer and road accidents. Figures reported by the Home Office show it is the largest cause of morbidity, not death. Morbidity: the relative incidence of a particular disease (Collins).When Claire Overton told her husband that their marriage was over, she braced herself for the consequences. "I'd put up with his violence and threats for so long, I knew he wouldn't go quietly." Sure enough, three days later, Overton was slashed so deeply from face to torso with a Stanley knife that she almost died.One in four women are affected by domestic violence (DV) at some point in their lives, with two murders and up to 10 suicides attributed to it each week. For women under 44, it is the most common cause of death - above both cancer and road accidents.British police receive a call-out for DV every minute of every day (half a million complaints annually) but for decades now the government and police have been struggling to secure prosecutions for men who beat their partners. When it comes to pressing charges, the onus usually falls entirely on the victim, and, because they are often bullied by their abuser into dropping the charges, there has been a frustrating sense that little can be done to combat this crime.That may be about to change. In South Wales and Plymouth, police have been piloting a new way of gathering primary evidence - crucial in such "one word against the other" style cases - which is simple, but brilliant. The head-camera scheme, which has been running since autumn 2006, provides police officers with the tools to gather evidence at the scene of a DV incident. The mini digital video cameras can be worn on a headband or attached to the side of police helmets, and can provide real-time evidence of victims' injuries, damage to property and the demeanour of the accused when first confronted.A new Dispatches documentary, When Did You Last Beat Your Wife?, shows some of the footage picked up by these cameras. "What the fuck do you think you're doing?" shouts one perpetrator to the arresting officer, his aggressive stance captured on camera. "Don't touch me, get off me, you prick!" The programme shows men making violent threats against their partners; the blood on clothes and furniture; and the victim hysterical with fear. It is highly distressing viewing. For those who do not understand the horrors of DV, it also provides an opportunity to see the crime for what it really is.Crucially, police can use such evidence to convince the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) to take the case to court, whether or not the victim feels able to support a prosecution. Sian Lewis, a neighbourhood policing officer in South Wales, regularly attends domestic violence incidents wearing a head-camera. "When the perpetrator sees we are filming them, they are not at all pleased," says Lewis. "They know that any amount of bullying the victim out of continuing the case the next day will be useless - we already have the evidence.""Often in DV cases," she says, "the perpetrator will turn up in court, months after the incident, in a smart suit, looking all innocent. But if the magistrate can see him on film, going berserk and screaming obscenities, it provides them with crucial evidence about what happened on the night in question."Lewis says that when the victims realise that the crime scene is being filmed they seem reassured that police will have evidence of the attack. "If the victims decide to drop the case, and we take it to court on the strength of the camera evidence," says Lewis, "the magistrate or jury will be educated as to the seriousness of the offences." All too often, Lewis believes, magistrates and jurors take a dim view of DV victims if they have discontinued cases against the accused in the past, assuming that the violence can't be all that serious or one-sided if she has failed to take it through the system.Overton believes she would not have suffered such serious consequences if police had been able to use the head-camera scheme in the years before her ex-partner became murderous. On the day she threw him out, he smashed up the house and slashed all her clothes. "I heard noises from my bedroom, and saw he had cut his way in through the door," says Overton. When she reported the break-in to police, however, they wearily told her they could not arrest her husband and did not wish to intervene in their dispute. She was advised to see her solicitor after the weekend to get an injunction against him.Just minutes before she was due to leave for the solicitor's office, her husband smashed his way into the house, severed the phone line with a newly acquired Stanley knife, and barricaded Overton in the bedroom. "He wanted to kill me that day," she says. He very nearly succeeded. "I knew it was coming," she says, "because he had threatened me all weekend over the phone, saying he was going to make me the ugliest bitch in town, and that he would make sure no one else would want me. Had the police who dealt with me gathered evidence using cameras at the time he was building up to the attack, he might have been convicted before he almost killed me."Her ex-partner was sentenced to six years for grievous bodily harm, of which he will serve four. He is due to be released in May and Overton has no idea how police will protect her from further danger.Although the use of head-camera evidence is supported by many campaigners against DV, other government-led initiatives have proved less popular. In December last year, communities secretary Ruth Kelly announced that sanctuary schemes - where the properties of DV victims are fitted with alarms, mortice locks and bars on windows to keep out their abuser - should be available all across the country. Many believe that sanctuary schemes are simply a cheap way for the government to deal with victims of domestic violence rather than the more expensive option of rehousing them.Jean Osborne, manager of a DV support service in a west London borough, says that sanctuary schemes are about local authorities saving money, but that they can have some benefits in certain cases. "Women have said to me that they feel like prisoners in their own homes," says Osborne, "but they would feel that way with or without the bars on the windows. At least this way they can sleep at night."Whatever the benefits to victims, sanctuary schemes are unlikely to increase the conviction rate and bring perpetrators to task. It is a scheme which, by its very existence, highlights how victims of DV have been failed by the CPS. The head-camera scheme, however, is a real opportunity to both protect victims and bring the abusers to justice."Already we are seeing positive results," says Lewis, "in that there are cases where the victim has discontinued through guilt or fear, but police are pursuing it because of having the concrete evidence to take to court." It is too early to measure the success of the scheme when it comes to conviction rates, but the Association of Chief Police Officers is carrying out an evaluation.In the documentary, we hear one man shouting at his victim: "Run away and change your name - it's the only thing you can do, you dirty demented bitch." If more police forces adopt the head-camera scheme, and the courts accept it as evidence, perhaps then it will be the abusers who feel like they need to run.· Dispatches: When Did You Last Beat Your Wife? is on Channel 4 on Monday March 19 at 8pm