What worse fate could befall a woman than to see her babies die - and then find herself wrongly sentenced to life imprisonment for their murder? After Sally Clark, Trupti Patel and Angela Cannings, other women will be freed for murders they did not commit. Harriet Harman announced in the Commons yesterday that 54 parents in prison are to get an urgent review of their cases, with many getting quick bail, while 15 cases in progress may be dropped and 258 old "murders" will be re-opened.Donna Anthony is one of those still locked up: she is in Durham lifers' wing, where no one speaks to her except other convicted killers hissing "BKB" - Baby Killing Bitch - at her as she passes. She was accused of killing her 4-month-old son in 1997 and her 11-month-old daughter a year earlier - on the evidence of the discredited Professor Sir Roy Meadow, now, belatedly, under investigation by the General Medical Council. All these mothers have, in their time, been monstered in the very same press that now turns on Meadows.But one important question has been ignored in all the uproar. Even if these women had killed their babies, what were they doing on the lifers' wing of high-security jails anyway? They are a danger to no one, yet they are regarded as so exceptionally wicked that even other killers shun them. Why did the press, (until the last days of the Sally Clark case), revel in their sinister wickedness? Their offence was seen as an assault on the sacred: a mother alone in her home secretly stifling her baby was seen as a crime against nature. Does locking up killer mothers defend motherhood itself? Curiously, it does the opposite, suggesting that only harsh punishment deters other mothers from smothering their babies too. The law has always recognised the tragic phenomenon of infanticide. It does not carry a mandatory life sentence: indeed, mothers might not need to be jailed at all under it. But it has one fatal drawback: a woman can only be charged with infanticide if she confesses her crime. Most of the mothers now jailed were pressed by their lawyers to plead guilty to infanticide in order to avoid jail. But they didn't. This strongly suggests - though may not prove - their innocence. If they are guilty, preferring life in prison to confession suggests some deep psychological inability to believe what has happened. This strange crime springs from sickness of mind, post-natal depression, an extreme derangement that should not be treated as a criminal matter at all but as a medical tragedy. The government is left in a quandary about what to do. One inquiry, headed by Helena Kennedy QC, is drawing up a national protocol to ensure better ways to investigate child deaths, with professional teams in every area. But there is a critical shortage of paediatric pathologists with special skills in infants - so dead children will need to be ferried around the country for autopsies. Another inquiry by the Royal College of Paediatricians is trawling through all the available forensic research to explore the reliability of existing knowledge. Is there unequivocal proof on the causes of particular types of bruising and other injuries to children? Does anyone know for certain how old a bruise is? Can courts be sure an injury is a hit not a fall? The more they look, they harder they are finding it. After the fall of Meadow, judges will no longer have blind confidence in a professor or a "Sir" of unquestioned eminence. Meanwhile, the medics shy away from anything to do with the law. Every NHS Trust is supposed to have a designated paediatrician responsible for child protection - training nurses and doctors to look for abuse and what to do if they suspect it. But 60% of these posts are vacant. "Damned if they do, damned if they don't, no one wants to do it," says the Royal College. Many paediatricians who give evidence become targets of pressure groups. Behind all this is the emotional politics of the family. The pendulum of press-poisoned public opinion swings from extreme to extreme. Sometimes the state dangerously interferes with the sanctity of family life, at other times it negligently fails in its care of the nation's children. The moral right likes to have it both ways, with the state always at fault. Victoria Climbie-type cases allow them to point to gross neglect by social workers, their bêtes noirs, with a subtext that all taxpayers' money is wasted on do-gooders: what society needs is a good dose of law and order. But then in the Cleveland inquiry, where over-zealous doctors were accused of taking too many children into care after evidence of sex abuse, the state became an officious child-snatcher, seizing children from the bosom of their innocent families. (In the event, less publicised, many of the Cleveland children did turn out to have been abused.) Now the Meadow cases again get the right's blood boiling over the excesses of state intervention. What the right likes is families to be left alone. Tory policy over its 18 years in power strove to keep the state from crossing the threshold of family life - eager to give money from the state into fathers wallets, not mothers purses; keen to deny the harm that occurs in families; angry at any attempt to stop grown men walloping three-year-olds, and calling it "smacking" in the name of parental discipline. Tory policy had the advantage of being cheap: no nursery schools, no childcare, no nosy nannying from social workers, mothers responsible for everything, the state for as little as possible. The left is inclined to agree with Larkin. It wants to intervene as much as it can afford to: giving children equal opportunities means offering help, education, child care, parenting classes and Sure Start from birth. But there is not much ideology in the nightmare facing the government now. The tidal wave of cases will not be murders but the thousands of children taken into care on what may be flawed evidence. Old scars will be prised open where children were wrongly adopted years ago. It will take more than the Judgment of Solomon to decide what is right in cases of children long apart from their natural families. Already lawyers for wronged parents are sharpening their arguments: the innocent deserve to get their children back. The Children Act may make the interests of the child paramount - but it may be less clear what their long-term interests are, even if they have been happily settled elsewhere for years. Having written a book on adopted children in search of their natural families, I agree with Margaret Hodge's hope that where families cannot be reunited, at least contact could be re-established.There may be few happy endings - colossal law suits loom with heavy claims for compensation for parents' and childrens' loss of family life. But the heart-rending dilemmas of when the state should take children away will never be finally resolved. p.toynbee@theguardian.com