Having sufficient numbers of officers on the street responding to crime is essential. You need to know, in that horrible moment when you realise you desperately need the police, that a highly trained and professional officer will be available in your area to come to your aide. But that's not nearly enough. What's also needed is to have the manpower and funds to engage in the proactive, community level policing that actually prevents crime by dealing with its causes. This was part of Robert Peel's original vision for the Met. But as the government struggles to figure out how to protect us with 20% less police funding, politicians are focused more on appearing right than doing right.Last Sunday, Nick Herbert, the policing minister, sparked fury when he said that "no respectable academic would make a simple link between the increase in the numbers of officers and what has happened to crime. There is no such link." The hostile reaction from Labour was swift, and ferocious. The only problem is that Herbert is mostly correct. More cops on the street doesn't guarantee less crime … but figuring out what actually works is very difficult.Let's be honest about crime. The herculean efforts by both the police and the British crime survey have resulted in what we think is a fairly accurate picture of the crime rate. But thousands of serious crimes go unreported each year. What we do know is that for most of the 20th century, the crime rate rose. Slowly at first, and rapidly picking up steam in the 1960s; it is only for the past 15 years that we've seen it reverse its course. But police numbers have also grown, doubling since the 1960s – even as the nation's population only grew by 17%.Between 1995 and 2001, spending on police in the UK remained nearly flat and only started to grow quickly in the wake of the terror attacks of 9/11. But 1995 is when we began to see a drop in the crime rate in the UK. And this wasn't just here. New York experienced an almost identical drop at around the same time. And this fall has largely continued since in both places. We're safer today than we have been in a long time. This isn't due to just the number of officers on the street, and even the Labour government conceded that, "80% of [the] recent decrease in crime [is] due to economic factors".But in their squabble over the numbers of "bobbies on the beat", politicians fail to acknowledge that the important role police play in society isn't just a matter of the service's size; it's about what police do and how they do it. Instead of political gamesmanship, we need pragmatic solutions to funding issues and a commitment to local problem oriented policing.The Met has focused itself on improving the confidence of the community through intensive local efforts brought by the safer neighbourhood teams. Started in 2004, these 600 locally focused teams base their priorities on community-defined problems. In partnership with their local ward panels, these units can actively engage with the individuals and locations causing crime to occur, not waiting to respond to it. It's not just about enforcement, its about bettering society and meeting that ideal where the police are the public and the public are the police. But this takes dedicated teams of officers, strategic research on community perceptions, and sandwiches.Yes, sandwiches.It's a small thing, but when Sergeant Heathcock meets with his ward panel, he always brings a tray of sandwiches. Success or failure in his position won't come from the fact that he makes sure a few of them are vegetarian for Mrs Harper. But the sandwiches are a bridge builder, a small gesture to the community members working with him and his team to identify community concerns. It's breaking bread in the most real sense. Later, he'll be meeting with a group of community leaders to discuss after-school programmes in the neighbourhood and how they can work together to reduce youth involvement in gangs.These teams, their offices, cars, and sandwiches cost money. Sure, the government could save some cash by disbanding or downsizing the teams, but they'd lose something important. The number of "bobbies on the beat" might not change, but they would have undermined one of the few policing efforts that can proactively stop crime before it starts. Of course, getting rid of response teams or research units will also undercut police abilities. As a society we need that balance of proactive policing and the ability to have someone respond in the dead of night. Herbert may claim that there are efficiencies to be made, but you can't pretend that 20% the police budget can disappear without any consequences.