Many teenage girls are caught up in a cycle of violence, experiencing abuse at home before becoming victims of attacks from aggressive boyfriends, a survey reveals today.One in three girls and young women who had been hit by their parents went on to be abused by their boyfriends, according to the survey, which is backed by the children's charity the NSPCC. An acceptance of violence also emerged in the survey of 2,000 teenagers aged 13-19, with more than four in 10 (43%) believing it was acceptable for a boyfriend to get aggressive in certain circumstances - for example if a girl cheated on him, flirted with somebody else, screamed at him or "dressed outrageously". Child protection experts expressed alarm that the survey, undertaken by the teen magazine Sugar, seemed to show that many teenage girls appeared to think violence was an acceptable, even normal, part of everyday life.Wes Cuell, director of services to children and young people at the charity, described the statistics as "scary". He said: "There is a view that young people today are more sassy, able to take care of themselves. This survey shows that is not the case. Young people are increasingly vulnerable. The survey reveals a generation of girls, many of whom are growing up believing that aggression is an acceptable part of life." Annabel Brog, the magazine's editor, said: "An appalling number of girls feel violence at home or in relationships is sometimes acceptable. They need to know that nobody has the right to hurt them, scare them or abuse them in any way." Julie Bindel, founder of Justice for Women, said that in her experience abused young women did not accept violence, but did not have the power to stop it, often because they had come into contact with violence from early age. She said: "It's not that they think violence is normal. It's that they don't have the resources to deal with it. Predatory men target women who are vulnerable." A third of the girls and young women who took part in the survey said they had experienced violence at home. One fifth said they had been hit by parents, a quarter of them regularly. But more than half of girls who saw parents hitting each other or screaming and shouting did not regard this as "domestic violence". However, the impact on the girls was plain from the survey. Only 9% of girls regularly hit by parents described themselves as having "lots of self- confidence". Girls hit regularly were more likely to describe themselves as "insecure and quiet". One in six of those surveyed said they had been hit by their boyfriends, 4% of them regularly. Another 15% had been pushed. Two-thirds of them said they had stayed with the boyfriend after being hit or pushed. More than 40% of girls said they would consider giving a boy a second chance if he hit them. Six per cent simply said it was acceptable for a boy to hit his girlfriend and 2% could "understand" a boy forcing his girlfriend to have sex in certain circumstances. The link between violence at home and within relationships is stark. Around a third of girls hit regularly by their boyfriends said they had seen their parents hit one another. A third of the young women who had been hit by their parents went on to be hit by boyfriends. Also highlighted in the survey were regional variations. More teenage girls in the Midlands and Scotland said boyfriends had hit them (19%), while more Welsh girls had been forced into sex (10%). Fewer of the girls from London and the south-east said a boyfriend who hit his girlfriend should be given a second chance (36%). The NSPCC may commission more research into the regional variations so that it could tailor messages to specific areas. The figures revealed in the survey are broadly in line with the statistics for adult victims. According to the Home Office, one in four women and one in six men suffer from domestic violence at some point in their lives. Every year around 150 people are killed by a current or former partner and domestic abuse accounts for 16% of all violent crime. It also has more repeat offenders' victims than any other crime - on average there will be 35 assaults before a victim calls the police. Campaigners claim a more strategic approach to eradicating domestic violence is needed. Last month the Crown Prosecution Service published new guidelines on how to deal with cases, which included advice on when an allegation should be tested in court, even if the victim has said she or he wants it dropped.