If, like me, you returned from one of last weekend's music festivals with a depleted bank account but enhanced faith in human creativity and communal spirit, then the reports of two separate rapes at Latitude may have delivered a peculiarly personal shock. Although most comments from people who went to the Suffolk weekender were very clear about the extreme rarity of hostile behaviour, there was also talk of a new stag-night element to the atmosphere, and a 17-year-old recounted her escape from the kind of behaviour that festival fans will consider an appalling betrayal of the egalitarian and peace-loving ethos from which music festivals were born.A more diverse crowd may be an inevitable, and in most ways welcome, consequence of music festivals' rise in popularity in recent years, which has seen Latitude's own capacity grow from 6,000 in 2005 to 35,000 this year. Even so, the organisers have responded with commendable speed and seriousness; Melvyn Benn, chief executive of organisers Festival Republic, announced that the importance of personal safety, especially for women, will in future be emphasised at all the festivals run by the company, including Reading and Leeds and The Big Chill.This is a sensible idea evidently prompted by real concern; the need to stay alert and aware of one's surroundings should indeed be highlighted at all such events – and not just for women, since thieves remain a scourge of all places where cash and tents coexist. But it would be a pity if efforts to prevent attacks on women stopped there, since it leaves out a fairly important part of the equation, namely the small number of men who actually pose the threat. A depressing consensus seems to be forming that rape is inevitable at any event attended by such a large and diverse crowd, as articulated in John Harris's article and the comments that follow it.Hermione Hoby believes that "an unpleasantly laddish atmosphere isn't something the organisers can do anything about", and I suspect that this would be the majority view. I think, however, that there is the potential to explore whether there might in fact be a real opportunity here to promote respect for women in an effective and truly engaging way.Discussions of rape prevention often throw up the assumption that the men who do it are so deranged, so far removed from society, that efforts to target them before they commit a crime are a waste of time. It is only pragmatic, in this line of reasoning, to focus exclusively on exhorting women to protect themselves by carrying rape alarms, or learning self-defence, or ensuring they do not walk alone after dark if it can be avoided. Although these suggestions are well-meant, and are in themselves unobjectionable as long as they are not used to blame rape victims who do not follow them, it remains naive to confuse precautions with real prevention. The uncomfortable truth is that rapists can be well-integrated members of society with apparently normal social lives, and the power to end rape therefore lies with them – and also to some extent with all of us who would like to challenge sexist attitudes, but don't.In truth, public education campaigns targeting harmful sexual attitudes to women have been of debatable worth in the past. A notorious example was the Home Office's 2006 "No entry" posters, which showed a woman's body from the waist down, clad only in a pair of knickers with a "No entry" sign over the crotch. These attracted criticism both for the dehumanisation of the woman, which was seen as contributing to the very culture in which disrespect for female sexual autonomy is likely to thrive, and for not chiming with men's real experiences of meeting and dating women, who generally wear clothes and, well, have faces. If the government can't get it right, despite their vast resources and extensive knowledge of crime policy issues, then what chance do festival organisers have?But perhaps the specific nature of a festival actually offers an extraordinary opportunity. Ethical messages are already a staple feature of festival culture, where environmental sustainability is often promoted almost as strongly as the line up, for example through this year's 10:10 festival partnerships. If we have found here a context in which people are receptive to being challenged about what they can do to reduce noxious fumes, why not ask them to help tackle poisonous attitudes to women too? Why not create a festival-focused campaign encouraging people to challenge harassment, groping and worse when they see it? If the communitarian spirit that defines festivals can be tapped in this way, the impact may even be felt beyond the campsite boundary.Of course neither festival organisers nor festival-goers can defeat the deep-seated sexual entitlement that leads some individuals to rape. But if we all agreed to leave our tolerance of misogynistic behaviour at the gates with the alcohol; now that would be a weekend to remember.