Independent Editorial, January 13"The home secretary has announced [on Wednesday] that there will be no change in the law on the amount of force householders may use to combat burglars. The current provision for 'reasonable force', he said, was 'sound', and he promised an advertising campaign to ensure that people know their rights. "This is a sensible conclusion to a panic whipped up around a couple of high-profile, exceptional cases. We would only ask why the prime minister suggested that the law needed another look. At the time, it looked as though he was trying to coopt another Tory crowd-pleaser. It looks even more like that in the light of Charles Clarke's decision."  Sun Editorial, January 13  "Yet again, the government talks tough but acts soft. It is barely a month since Tony Blair gave the clear impression he would change the law on how you can defend your home against intruders. He pledged a review of the law to counter a similar Tory promise. But it was just so much hot air. "Mr Clarke - who looks tough and talks tough - shows he is neither. He says the present law is fine - it just needs explaining better. That will not satisfy people who are sick of criminals' 'rights' being put before their own. Not for the first time, the public will feel it has had the wool pulled over its eyes."  Daily Express Editorial, January 13  "Remember the prime minister promising to be 'tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime'? He said it so often that we had to believe him ... Now Mr Blair has shown just how little faith we should have in such utterances. [On Wednesday] ... Mr Clarke revealed that there will be no change in the law on the amount of force householders can use to tackle burglars after all. Instead, we are left with the same ambiguity which has left all of us afraid that, if we try to protect our homes, we will be the ones who end up in the dock. "We should not be surprised by the prime minister's failure to deliver. It has happened with unfailing regularity ... But it is the sheer audacity of his latest U-turn that appals us most. Britain is in the grip of a crime wave that is leaving us terrorised by 'urban savages' on our streets and horrified at the prospect of being defenceless in our own homes." Daily Telegraph Editorial, January 13  "In the dispute over how much force a householder should be permitted to use in defence of his family and property, the government has taken the side of the burglars ... If the present law were indeed adequate, it would not be the public who needed educating, but the police and the Crown Prosecution Service, who persist in investigating complaints by burglars against the people from whom they have attempted to steal ... "But, of course, the present law is wholly inadequate ... What is needed is a law that spells out, in language that every criminal and CPS bureaucrat can understand, that the moment when a burglar breaks into another citizen's property is the moment when he loses the law's protection from anything but the most extreme and sadistic violence."  Daily Mirror Editorial, January 13  "Too often this government has bowed to populist pressure and taken the easy way out ... But the home secretary, not for the first time, showed he won't be bullied. Mr Clarke refused to change the law because the law doesn't need to be changed. It already allows householders to use reasonable force if their home is invaded. "Mr Clarke went further. He refused to encourage homeowners to attack burglars. For, as the Daily Mirror has pointed out, that would be irresponsible. Housebreakers can be desperate and going for them might result in an innocent person being killed. It is better to lose your property than your life ... We want common sense in government, not populist scaremongering."