Yesterday evening I was in the St Francis funeral home in Cebu, in the Philippines, listening to Mass from Father Sipat, the local priest. In the coffin in front of me lay Kirk Abella, a man whom I had known for less than two weeks, and who was killed while helping me make a feature film.I first came to the Philippines in 2006 to teach and study at the International Academy of Film and Television on Mactan Island. I settled in fast and started meeting people and making films. I wanted to try to reflect the lives of the Filipino people in an honest and authentic way, by listening to their stories and making documentary-style films that were about them and those little moments in their lives that somehow become significant.Over the next three years I made three short films and started writing a feature-length film, Going Somewhere. Everything depicted in it was true. During the filming of my first short documentary film, Jeepney, one of the people in it, was shot by vigilante killers as he and his wife were selling batchoy, a kind of pork soup, outside their house. Dante de la Torre had been in prison for four years for stealing a bag from a car. He had just been released but somebody still thought he had a price to pay for his crimes, and he was shot dead.At the time I was told that there were many shootings in Cebu. I read in the press that there had been approximately 200 such killings during 2005. Some people accused the police of being involved. Others told me that it was a way of life. "People do bad things. It is justice," they said.When I was writing Going Somewhere I wanted to include these scenes. I felt I was somehow exposing something.But then, unbelievably, last Saturday, the actor playing the vigilante hitman in the film was shot by a barangay tanod (a local watchman), who thought he was apprehending a genuine killer.Edgardo Cuizon, 51, is now facing charges of homicide and a violation of the election-time gun ban before the Cebu city prosecutors' office.I feel completely shaken by what has happened. I thought we had acted with care and looked at all the safety issues. Working with a local producer, we had involved the police in the planning of the filming and they were in attendance the whole time, directing traffic and dealing with crowd control. We had a full crew and had employed extras from the local community. The filming attracted a crowd of onlookers who were enjoying the spectacle.We had been filming for over an hour when the incident happened. How the tanod could misinterpret the scene is beyond belief. Why would he shoot somebody, in the back, without any question? Maybe I am naive. Maybe I should have done it all in a safer environment. But I was trying to show the realities of life in downtown Cebu. The area known as Colon is the oldest Spanish area in the Philippines. My film tells the story of a Spanish man searching for his personal history in the place that Ferdinand Magellan first discovered for the King of Spain, during his circumnavigation of the globe.Colon has become a melting pot of extraordinary people living together in very difficult conditions. The area is rife with drug dealing and prostitution. It seemed the right place to tell my story.For now, I feel remorse for playing in the backyard of other people's lives in order to make my small film. For years I have struggled to come to terms with the dilemma of telling stories of the marginalised, the destitute and the poor without exploiting them or making their stories seem banal in this shrinking world of instant newsflashes filled with despair and tragedy every day.For the last two years I have been working with charities to make artistic work with homeless people and victims of torture. When I return to the UK I will take up the post of artist-in-residence with the Cyrenians charity, and will continue my work with Crisis and The Medical Foundation for the Care of Victims of Torture. I want to continue to expose the difficulties of some people's lives through artistic projects. I want to try to show to "those that have" the realities of "those who have nothing".In the case of Kirk Abella, I want to do what is right, now. The surge of support I have had from all corners of the world makes me feel optimistic that I should continue to tell stories about the people who interest me. In times of tragedy, it seems that the Filipino people come together in an extremely powerful way. Families are comforting families and people are supporting those who have suffered loss in a profound yet simple way, in the spirit of bayanihan, a word for "helping each other, looking after each other".Senior Superintendent Melvin Buenafe, chief of the Cebu city police, said the incident was an isolated case and that the city remains safe for those who want to shoot a film here. Will I return to finish my film? Can I put anything right? The jury is still out.