The government last night suffered a defeat when the Lords voted 205 to 131 to knock out proposed new powers for the home secretary to intervene in failing police forces.The blow came despite last minute safeguards, including inviting chief constables to come up with their own remedial plans, announced by the government to answer accusations that it was centralising too much power in Whitehall. Sir David Phillips, president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, said the safeguards went "a good way towards limiting the potential for arbitrary powers of intervention by the home secretary".But Conservative and Liberal Democrat peers last night voted down clause five of the police reform bill, saying the safeguards did not go far enough. The government is expected to face a further clash today over the home secretary's power to suspend or remove failing chief constables. Home Office ministers are confident they can overturn the defeat in the Commons. But as the legislation has started life in the Lords the government cannot use its powers under the 1911 Parliament Act to force it through if peers block it. The bill gives the home secretary the power to order a chief constable to implement remedial measures where there has been a breakdown in policing. David Blunkett has already warned the Metropolitan police that he is prepared to use these powers if they cannot tackle the explosion of street crime in the capital. The last minute concessions spelt out that the home secretary would not intervene until the local chief constable and police authority had had the opportunity to put forward their own remedial action plans. The amendments published last night would require the home secretary to provide the chief constable with all the evidence and allow him to make representations. A report would also have to be made to MPs within six months. The government stressed that the powers would only be used in the last resort. The Conservative home affairs spokesman, Lord Dixon-Smith, said the new power was unnecessary. "It is becoming fundamentally damaging to the provision of local services." The Liberal Democrat spokesman, Lord Dholakia, said: "Ultimately it may mean the politicisation of the police."