Kathy Hobdell, who has died of cancer aged 67, was a pioneer in the care of victims of crime, and, in the mid-1970s, founding co-ordinator of the Islington victim support scheme.Only a few services were available then to victims of crime, and government policy and police practice had not fully absorbed the debate about their treatment. Kathy, by profession an occupational therapist, working from her home with a small local authority grant, built a network of volunteers and led the way for the creation of a successful organisation.At first, she personally supported victims in the worst cases, as few people felt they could manage to deal with a family bereaved by murder or violated by rape. Nothing was too much trouble for her and she often helped beyond the call of duty. One Christmas Eve she took a tourist, who had been raped, into her home for the holiday season. She used her direct experience from cases to guide volunteers and staff through uncertainties in dealing with similar events. Under her guidance, the Victim Support organisation developed an approach to the care of victims that was practical, informed, balanced, and yet centred around emotional responses to harm caused by crime.The work was never easy. There were always political and personal agendas, institutional and organisational resistance. Police were suspicious, after Roger Graef's exposure of their poor treatment of a rape victim in his 1981 television documentary. The 1970s and 1980s were a difficult time for such work and there were heated debates: feminists demanded better treatment for victims of rape and domestic violence, and there were similar demands for ethnic minority victims of racist aggression. Kathy navigated these debates, bringing together unlikely partners, such as Women's Aid and the police, and insisting they cooperate for the benefit of victims.She understood the cultural resistance of the police, and sought to break down barriers. She cultivated new-thinking officers, including the current police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, and helped motivate change from within. She was one of the first "civilians" invited to speak to CID officers at Hendon in 1982, when policing practices toward victims of sexual assault were beginning to change. Her personal skills enabled her to build bridges over chasms.Kathy was born in Durban, South Africa, and came to Britain at the age of 17 to attend the Constance Spry finishing school. She stayed to train at the London School of Occupational Therapy (1957-60), before returning to South Africa on graduation. She worked as a therapist in Britain and South Africa, moving back to Britain permanently in 1964 to take a post as head of occupational therapy at St Clements hospital, Mile End. There she met Roger Hobdell, whom she married in 1965. She then worked at the Maudesley hospital in Denmark Hill.In 1991 she took a career break and returned to South Africa, where she shared her experience and advised on setting up a sexual assault centre and victim support schemes in townships. These initiatives are still supported by the government and NGO communities.Back in Britain in 1992, she was awarded an MBE for her work, and she continued at Islington Victim Support until she retired in 1998. Her expertise was shared through the training and guidance she offered to staff around the country. Until her death, she provided critical support for new work, most recently the establishment of support for people attending coroners' courts.All those who knew Kathy felt that she gave special friendship and selflessness. Her home was always open to all and was a refuge for many. She travelled often and extensively, and enjoyed bird watching and visiting game reserves in South Africa.Kathy and Roger divorced in 1976. She is survived by their sons, Eliot and Nolan.· Katherine Hobdell, victim support worker, born October 31 1937; died June 28 2005