A Malaysian student who had been in Britain for just a month when he was attacked during the England riots relived the moment his jaw was broken in the assault.Ashraf Rossli, 20, told a jury at Wood Green crown court that he had been cycling with a friend on August 8 last year when he was attacked and his bicycle stolen. The jury heard that the incident, in Barking, east London, was captured on camera and received widespread publicity.Questioned by prosecutor Christopher Hehir, Rossli said he managed to get through one group of rioters who grabbed his bike and rucksack only to be attacked by somebody in a second group.He said he felt a hand take his mobile phone from his left jacket pocket and as he turned around to look, somebody punched him in the face, breaking his jaw in two places.He said: "I turned left to see who took it and felt an impact from the right side. The impact was hard. I don't know how it happened. I fell to the ground. Blood was coming out of my mouth."A 17-year-old, who cannot be named because of his age, admits stealing the bike but denies causing and inflicting grievous bodily harm. He also denies robbery.The defendant is not accused of being involved in a later crime, in which the contents of Rossli's rucksack were allegedly taken by people posing as good Samaritans. Two men are due to stand trial at a later date in relation to that attack.Rossli, who has two metal plates in his jaw, was eventually helped by members of the public and treated at hospital. His friend managed to cycle home and was uninjured.Hehir said a witness, Weng Tsang, was watching the attack unfold as his girlfriend Diana Frutos Perez recorded the scene on her mobile phone. The barrister added that one youth punched the victim and then rode off on the bike.He said: "Weng Tsang clearly heard the youth shout 'give me the bike' as he delivered the punch, and he also heard this male and his companions laughing."The defendant was arrested four weeks later and told police: "I can swear on my mother's life, everyone's life and my family I never touched him."The trial continues tomorrow.