Home Office ministers are privately blaming violent story lines in TV programmes, such as The Bill and Crimewatch, for what they say are unjustifiably high fear of crime figures in Britain.The latest fear-of-crime figures in the British Crime Survey show that two thirds of the population believes crime rose between 1997 and 1999. Thirty-three per cent believe crime has risen a lot.Although recorded crime figures have risen, almost entirely due to changes in police counting, figures in the BCS show an overall fall of 10%. Ministers, eager for a change in public perceptions before the general election, are frustrated by the repetitively violent story lines in programmes such as The Bill and the frequent portrayal of the police as corrupt or negligent. They believe it has created an insidious atmosphere and a wholly disproportionate fear of violent crime . Ministers are reluctant to go public about their anger, fearing they will be ridiculed for wanting a return to the era of Dixon of Dock Green, the series in which petty crime was cleared up by placid police officers. In the past, however, ministers have inserted public service messages into some soap operas and they are interested in pressing on programme makers their wider responsibilities. Ministers take the issue seriously since surveys show fear of crime can be almost as debilitating as crime itself. The latest BCS, for instance, shows that 36% of women do not go out at night alone due to fear of crime, while 59% of women aged 60 or over refuse to go out alone. Fear of crime is highest in inner cities, and among ethnic minorities and elderly women. However, the disparity between fear of crime and actual crime is high in rural areas. The 2000 BCS also found that people believe crime has even risen in their own locality with 50% reporting it had risen, and only 14% per cent believing it had fallen. Thirty-three per cent believed it was "very or fairly likely" that they would personally suffer crime to their car. Twenty-one per cent expected their home to be burgled, even though figures show only 4.3% of households on current trends will be burgled. In an effort to reassure the public in rural areas, the Home Office minister, Charles Clarke, yesterday urged the police to become more visible in their local communities. He said that police authorities should advertise all that their local units were doing to raise their profile in the local area. Mr Clarke also said he wanted more police to establish a "local blue light" through reopening local stations on a part time basis, or by sharing accommodation with other emergency services, or in village halls. He told a rural affairs conference yesterday: "I believe that every community has the right to information about this work, to offer them the reassurance they seek and to reduce their fears of crime and disorder." The government has set a target of cutting fear of crime between 1998 and 2002, but the BCS suggests ministers have made no progress in the first two years in terms of fear of burglary, car theft, or theft from cars - three of the four key indicators set down by the Home Office. The shadow Home Office minister, Ann Widdecombe, told the same conference that fear of crime in the countryside will only be solved by a return to police officers on the rural beat. Miss Widdecombe dismissed a report from the Neighbourhood Watch Association which said bobbies on the beat were a waste of resources, saying they addressed a public need. Drawing on her experience of US policing, Miss Widdecombe called for "cops in shops". This would mean giving police temporary bases in shops and local businesses.  Changing casesDixon of Dock Green (1955-76) In 1963, an episode called The Gunman saw PC George Dixon being plagued by someone with an airgun. When a lad ends up in hospital after being shot in the eye, Dixon becomes more determined to find his man. Meanwhile a fellow officer is investigating a case involving trading stamps. Another episode in the same year saw the constable investigating petty theft from the usherettes' staff room at the local cinema.  The Bill (1985 - )  In 1992 various episodes saw a detective constable in a pub brawl. One officer took a fancy to an illegal immigrant while his colleague worked undercover as a punter in a brothel raid. The same year the community police station was blown up and an officer was taken prisoner by burglars. A police constable was badly beaten up by a burglar and his colleague, who should have aided him, was off having an affair with the sergeant's lover.