The man accused of shooting dead his estranged wife and her sister at a family barbecue killed himself in prison three days after being taken off suicide watch, it was revealed today.A Home Office inquiry was launched immediately after Stuart Horgan, of Plaistow, London, was discovered by staff at HMP Woodhill, in Buckinghamshire, yesterday morning. The 39-year-old had dismantled a disposable razor and cut himself repeatedly with the blade while in his single cell. Original reports suggested he had not been on suicide watch since being placed in custody at the prison five days after the killings.But today it was confirmed that Mr Horgan attended a case conference in Woodhill prison, near Milton Keynes, on Thursday at which it was decided he was no longer a suicide risk. "He had a full case review with all the staff there," said a prison service spokeswoman. "He was taken off the watch. When prisoners are present, there has to be an element of trust that they are not manipulating you." After Thursday's case conference, Horgan was moved from the jail's healthcare wing to a single cell in the segregation unit and was due to start working as wing cleaner, the spokeswoman said. Mark Leech, the editor of the Prisons Handbook, said: "I find it astonishing that this man was taken off a suicide watch so soon after appearing in court and facing the rest of his life in prison. This is not the first time this has happened at Woodhill. "Ian Huntley did precisely the same thing a year ago and came within an inch of taking his own life. This is the kind of tragedy that happens when prisons are overcrowded - suicide procedures need to be strengthened." A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed an inquiry was now under way. She said: "Any death in custody is a tragedy and a full investigation by the prison and probation ombudsman will follow. In the first instance the ombudsman will alert the prison service to any immediate action that needs to be taken in relation to this incident." Mr Horgan was alleged to have scaled a wall to interrupt the garden barbecue in the village of Highmoor Cross, Oxfordshire, on June 6 before firing at his wife, Vicky, 27, and her sister, Emma Walton, 25. Mrs Horgan's daughter, Jade, seven, and the child she and Mr Horgan had together, Bobbie, three, witnessed the murders. Mr Horgan's mother-in-law, Jacqueline Walton, 55, was also wounded in the attack and remains seriously ill. It is believed that Horgan first fired at Mrs Walton before chasing his wife into the house and shooting her in the head. He is understood to have then returned to the garden and shot Ms Walton dead as she attempted to call the police. Mr Horgan allegedly raced from the scene and was arrested more than 100 miles away in his family home, in Peterborough. He was later charged with two counts of murder and one of attempted murder, and had been due to attend court on August 13 to enter pleas. An initial inquest heard that Mrs Horgan, a special needs teacher, died as a result of a gunshot wound to the head and her sister suffered fatal gunshot wounds to the chest and abdomen.