The containment of protesters is not a novel police tactic. But its extensive and arbitrary use in recent protests is both unlawful and damaging to society as a whole.The law as it stands allows the police to kettle protesters in specific circumstances. In 2009, the House of Lords found that the cordon imposed around protesters in Oxford Circus for approximately seven hours on May Day 2001 was lawful. The court held that "crowd control measures" would be permitted in law if they were resorted to in good faith, were proportionate and were enforced for no longer than was reasonably necessary. In that case, the law lords were persuaded that the kettle was necessary to prevent personal injury and damage to property.This decision is being challenged in the European court of human rights, but in the interim the police appear to have misconstrued the restrictions imposed on the use of kettling, treating the judgment as carte blanche to deploy kettles more broadly than ever before. Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary's report of July 2009, commissioned in response to widespread criticism of kettles imposed during the G20 protests, noted that the tactical plan for containment failed to "explicitly address the legal criteria set out in the [Lords judgment] regarding the use of containment as a crowd control measure, and it is not apparent … that all commanders were familiar with the criteria that had to be met". Since then, the police seem to have fundamentally lost sight of the fact that their primary role is to facilitate peaceful protest, and kettling has become the norm.The most worrying manifestation of this is in relation to the kettling of young children. In recent student protests around the country, children as young as 12 were kettled in the freezing cold, without access to food, water or toilet facilities, sometimes for more than five hours. Some kettles were imposed pre-emptively, in anticipation of disruption but without clear evidence of an imminent risk of serious disorder, as required by law.Many kettles appear to ignore the requirement that they be imposed for a legitimate purpose. The most obvious example of this is the extensive use of kettling to obtain intelligence, during which young children were contained for hours while being photographed by police intelligence teams. In many cases police also relied on the extensive powers conferred upon them under antisocial behaviour laws, refusing to release protesters until they provided their details.Sceptics may query why anybody should get exercised about a bunch of protesters being kept in a kettle for a couple of hours. But this tactic has far-reaching implications for the whole of society. The very fact that police may be acting beyond their powers and in an arbitrary manner is cause for concern, especially when the imposition of kettles is often accompanied by extensive and excessive use of police violence. In addition, the efficacy of kettling is coming under increasing scrutiny. More and more people are suggesting that containment in these conditions provokes, rather than prevents, violent protest. But perhaps most worryingly, these police tactics criminalise peaceful protest: young people participating in the democratic process are being treated as troublemakers, when in fact their engagement with social issues should be applauded, particularly where their participation has overwhelmingly manifested itself in peaceful civil disobedience.No doubt, occupations, marches and sit-downs cause others some minor inconvenience. But these are the methods that young people are using to try to safeguard fundamental aspects of the welfare state. The use of oppressive and intimidatory police tactics means that many are now too frightened to partake in protests, and this deprives a whole generation of political empowerment. Political demonstrations are the legitimate expression of the will of the people, and an essential counterweight to the will of the elite, whose focus appears to be cutting tax for the rich and cutting spending for the poor.We all, every day, reap the rewards of the gains made by demonstrators in the past, and criminalisation of protest harms us all. We now risk losing essential public services, and treating legitimate opposition as criminal dissent dilapidates the tradition of protest and threatens participation of everyday people in the democratic process. This is why the encroachment of our rights to protest must be defended and why peaceful protest is to be applauded – not criminalised.