Almost 40 years to the day after James Hanratty became one of the last people in Britain to be hanged for murder, the court of appeal yesterday reopened the controversy surrounding his death with claims that the conviction was "fatally flawed".In a detailed dissection of evidence heard at the original trial, Michael Mansfield QC, the family's lawyer, alleged the police officer who led the investigation had "fabricated" interviews, failed to disclose vital information to the defence and distorted the legal process. The case, which is expected to last 10 days, was referred to the appeal court by the criminal cases review commission. The hearing is the culmination of years of lobbying by the Hanratty family and those who have campaigned to overturn miscarriages of justice. The final judgment - likely to turn on the court's assessment of new DNA tests which last year appeared to show Hanratty was, indeed, the killer - may have wider ramifications for the integrity of the legal process. Hanratty was arrested for the murder of scientist Michael Gregsten and his lover, Valerie Storie, in a layby on the A6 at Deadman's Hill, south of Bedford, in August 1961. The prosecution said he had surprised them one evening during a tryst in a remote cornfield near Dorney Reach, Berkshire. He allegedly forced them to drive their grey Morris Minor round the edge of London to Deadman's Hill, where in the early hours of the next morning he killed Gregsten, raped Miss Storie and shot her several times. He fled the scene believing she was also dead. Hanratty, who insisted he was more than 250 miles away in Rhyl, north Wales, on the night in question, was found guilty and went to the gallows on April 4, 1962, in Bedford prison. Before he was executed, the 25-year-old told his family: "I'm dying tomorrow but I'm innocent. Clear my name." His supporters have insisted that though a petty crook, he was not a killer. Addressing the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, Lord Justice Mantell and Mr Justice Leveson, Mr Mansfield yesterday told the court: "The problem at the root of this appeal occurred ... during the trial and in the preparation for the trial because the material that provided the foundation for the conviction that led to the execution was fatally flawed ... There was extensive and inexcusable non-disclosure." What followed had been "a distortion of the trial process" and was "in large measure due to the actions of the senior police officer in the case, Detective Superintendent Robert Acott." The court was told the officer had since died; Miss Storie is still alive. Mr Mansfield said there were 24 different examples of non-disclosure. "It is extensive because it affects every ground of appeal, save one or two." The identification evidence, based largely on Miss Storie's recollection of the voice of her attacker because she only saw him for a few seconds, would no longer be acceptable to a British court in the form it was presented. No one, for example, had checked whether anyone else in the identification parade had the same East End accent as Hanratty. Another main strand of the prosecution's case was the discovery of two cartridge cases associated with the revolver used in the murder. The cartridges were found in room 24 of the Vienna Hotel, west London, where Hanratty had stayed for one night in August 1961. But, Mr Mansfield said, the hotel had also been used by an earlier suspect in the killing, Peter Alphon. Mr Hanratty's alibi, supported by statements from Liverpool and Rhyl, was not given sufficient weight during the trial, he said. But it will be the results of modern DNA testing which are likely to prove pivotal. Mr Mansfield, in written submissions, argued the tests should not be admitted. The prosecution will place great weight on traces of Hanratty's DNA discovered on a fragment of Miss Storie's underwear, and the handkerchief wrapped around the revolver. If he fails to convince the court this evidence should be excluded, he will argue that it is impossible to exclude the possibility that the DNA had been deposited as the result of contamination. During the hearing yesterday, the prosecution confirmed that recent DNA testing on Peter Alphon had ruled him out as a suspect. The trial continues today.