Detective Sergeant Matt Robins is in a bit of a mood. He is clutching a mug of instant coffee as if his career depends on it and grumbles that an 18-year-old friend with half his qualifications has just been offered a job as a salesman on a comparable salary (not including commission) with a company car.Robins, 33, an officer for 10 years, did not join the Metropolitan police to make money, but it has been frantic and he feels entitled to a mid-morning moan over a piece of chocolate cake. On the day of the Guardian visit he is in south London in charge of the community safety unit at Brixton police station, one of 32 set up across London 12 months ago as part of a strategy to change the way the Met tackles race and hate crime. Few people outside the force have heard of CSUs, yet they are pivotal to the way London is being policed. In 10 weeks since November 29 this CSU has been asked to assess and review 1,057 cases in Lambeth. The workload, Robins explains, is huge and varied; an Asian man slashed across the neck near Kennington tube station in what seemed to be an unprovoked attack, but is more likely to have been a bungled robbery; reports of Kosovan/Albanian refugees terrorising black youths; a gay couple who woke to find they had been burgled by thieves who had daubed "poof" and "batty licker" on the living room wall; a man attacked on Clapham Common who does not want his wife to know why he was "cruising" there. "And that's just the hate crime," says Robins. "Ninety per cent of the cases that come to us are DVs [domestic violence]." To Robins, sifting through hundreds of reports in the cramped second floor office with his small team of predominantly white sergeants, detective constables and police constables might not seem like the sharp end of 21st century crime fighting, but this is where Sir William Macpherson believes the fight for the Met's credibility with ethnic minorities will be won or lost. The CSUs are satellites in an empire being built by Scotland Yard's racial and violent crimes task force. As well as domestic violence, they are referred reports on crimes that have been flagged as having possible racial, homophobic or anti-semitic motivation. They are building up databases and using techniques like covert videoing, to secure prosecutions. This CSU is linked to community groups, another confidence builder deemed essential if the wounds exposed by the Macpherson report are to be healed. Robins's unit is experiencing growing pains. The CSU is dealing with 30% of all crimes in the area, but has only 21 officers. The workload is massive because uniformed officers, anxious not to ignore potential hate crimes, refer everything to the CSU rather filter the genuine cases. "We have to deal with a lot of road rages and neighbour disputes," says Robins. He says these incidents should not be excluded but pleaded for extra staff to cope. "Despite what people might think, we don't have van loads of racists armed with baseball bats beating up black and Asian people. We do have vulnerable communities that need protecting." Recruiting the right calibre of officers for the CSUs is also problematic. There is a lot of pastoral work, and those who have moved from, for example, macho murder squads, have floundered. Acting DS Steve Williams gave up "kicking down doors" to join a CSU. "It was extremely hard. There were occasions when I could see what the problem was, but there was nothing I could do. You have to learn to deal with people in a different way." Williams, 28, is one of the young officers liaising with CSUs from the task force's higgledy-piggledy first floor office at New Scotland Yard. In a year in which the Met has had precious little to shout about, the task force achieved a notable success - the conviction of the men who murdered the black musician Michael Menson. And it is also working slowly, patiently, to conclude the most lamentable episode in the force's recent history. The unit cannot bring back Stephen Lawrence, but there is expectation that the people who killed him can be taken to court.The high profile investigations represent, however, a small fraction of the task force's work. It has been charged with overhauling the force's conduct towards relatives of victims, an area which makes up 20% of Macpherson's report. Next month some of the Met's hardest-nosed officers will be spirited away for a week's training at Hendon to "road test" a new family liaison training regime. The course will be the blue-print for a Met-wide programme to be introduced this summer. Developing lay advisory involvement is another contentious area - the 35-members of the original panel suspended their work last November claiming they were being sidelined and ignored, but the show was put back on the road after a weekend's peace talks in Bournemouth. The task force has probably the most sophisticated intelligence gathering and assessment system of any unit outside M15, but it means little without work on the ground. Acting DS Paul Charlton is a young black officer working at the unit. He is Duwayne Brooks's family liaison officer and is heavily involved in CO24's effort to root out racists at football matches. On the tube going to an evening community meeting in Lewisham, south-east London, he says he thinks that the Met is moving in the right direction. Like the rest of the staff, he has faith in 'JG' - John Grieve, the deputy assistant commissioner in charge of the task force. The extent of "the problem" of racism outside the force is greater than inside, he says. At the town hall the 30-strong audience is made up almost entirely of police officers. Lewisham's borough commander, Mike Humphrey, describes how a football supporter was arrested for chanting racist abuse during home games at Millwall. He is filmed shouting over and again "cut the black cunt, kill the black cunt, cut the coon". The people around him, including children, are laughing.