Police and firefighters today began the laborious task of clearing up around the scene of the east London siege as trapped residents were finally allowed to leave their homes.Many emerged from their homes in Hackney for the first time in days, several clutching rubbish bags and peering at the gunman's burnt-out home. Authorities cleared away the rows of barriers used to keep out the press and public. Earlier today, police confirmed they had found the charred body of a gunman in the flat he had occupied since Boxing Day. Commander Bob Quick said that Eli Hall, 32, had determined not to be taken alive and had indicated that he might "take the life of a police officer during the gunfight". During a press briefing in Hackney, east London, Mr Quick said: "We regret that the siege has ended with the loss of life, but we're obviously pleased that no harm has come to the public, to the hostage whose escape was achieved during the course of the siege, or to the brave officers and emergency services personnel."Mr Quick confirmed that the body had been found in the rear of the building. He said a formal identification would take place later, and the exact cause of death would have to be determined at a post mortem.Yesterday morning Hall shot at officers, and armed officers returned fire. He then started a fire in the flat, which emergency services personnel struggled for most of the day to extinguish.Police expected that most of the neighbourhood's residents would be allowed back into their homes sometime today, although some who had been living near the scene would need to wait for officials to assess any structural damage to surrounding buildings. A police statement said: "When the building has been assessed as safe by the borough surveyor, police will begin a thorough search of the premises and surrounding area. Due to the instability and the details needed during a forensic search, this is likely to take some time. "Our aim is to get the area back to normal as soon as possible. We understand that this will be a further frustration to the people of Hackney who have now had their lives disrupted by this incident for over two weeks. The police would like to thank the local people for their patience so far and hope to be able to withdraw within the next few days," the statement added.About 43 residents had been trapped in their homes since the siege began 15 days ago. Others had been evacuated. Several neighbours spoke today about their two-week ordeal. Neighbour Maria Pini, 37, said she was very saddened by the outcome of the siege. "It started off quite disturbing, became very irritating and ended up very sad," she said. Her house diagonally faces the burnt-out property and she and her husband were able to see what happened. "It was good from the first that they seemed to put such priority on preserving life. But I do not know why they could not have gone in a bit earlier," she added. Ken Hanson, chair of the Hackney Community and Police Consultative Group, also said he was happy with the way the police operation had gone. "Some people were asking why it took so long but I think the police did the right thing. If they'd gone in earlier, a member of the public or a police officer could have been shot by this man. The police acted in a proper way," he said.Labour MP for Hackney North, Diane Abbott, said: "I am not normally a cheerleader for the Metropolitan police, but in this instance I think they have done the right thing."Hall is believed to have had two handguns and a cache of ammunition inside the flat. Police said he also had petrol in the flat. He had been burning furniture to stay warm since officers cut off his electricity, water and gas a week ago. A man in his late 20s had been held hostage for 11 days before he made a dramatic escape on Sunday afternoon. He has been debriefed by police. Not every resident was impressed by the policing. Texas native James Burns, 29, said: "I don't know what kind of message the police operation has sent. We were feeding this guy who's the criminal. "To let the siege go on for a week or so would be okay but this was ridiculous," he added.