Detectives are investigating the "particularly brutal" murder of a popular community radio presenter after her body was found at her home in Glasgow.Police are searching CCTV footage and questioning residents after the body of Nasim Jamil, 54, was found by her daughter late on Wednesday evening in the third-floor flat they shared on Byres Road, a popular shopping street in Hillhead, near Glasgow University. Detectives said Jamil had died from severe head injuries.Jamil hosted a weekly show on Awaz FM, which broadcasts across the city and on the internet in Urdu, Punjabi and English, and the police said she was popular with her neighbours. Jamil, a widow who joined the station as a volunteer broadcaster in 2004, specialised in reuniting families, "true stories" and recipes.Her colleagues at the station, where her daughter Nazia also volunteered as the presenter of a Pakistani pop music show, were told she had died late on Wednesday.Javaid Ullah, a community relations manager, said staff were in shock and were planning to broadcast a memorial programme. He dismissed the idea her death was linked to her show. "Not in a million years," he said."We called her aunty," he added. "Nasim was a fantastic person, she was just such a bubbly, jolly person. No matter what we were doing with charity events, she was always there helping us out with fundraising."She was a very, very nice person and I don't think anyone out there will say anything bad about her. She was just a very, very caring person and we've lost a family member who can't be replaced."Detective Chief Inspector Louise Raphael, who is leading the investigation, said: "This was a particularly brutal murder and the person or persons responsible must be caught."Forensic officers have completed their examination of the scene and door-to-door inquiries are being carried out in the area."We will also be studying CCTV in the Byres Road area to identify pedestrians and motorists who were in the area on Wednesday. Nasim was a popular member of the community and well known to her neighbours."In a statement posted on the station website on Wednesday, colleagues said: "We received sad news today that one of our beloved presenters, a friend and mother to us all, Nasim Jamil, sadly passed away this evening. We are shocked and do not have words to express."In her personal profile on the website, Jamil wrote that reuniting broken families had been her main motivation for the show. "I set this as my main goal of my programme and managed to fulfil my dream. I reunited five people and this made me very happy."I love doing my programme on Awaz FM and if I had another opportunity to help reunite many more families I would do it gladly. I am an emotional person and always love helping people."Raphael said the police now knew more about Jamil's last movements and appealed for local residents, shoppers and motorists to contact the police with any information about people leaving her building on Wednesday afternoon, particularly wearing bloodstained clothes.Jamil's body was discovered on Wednesday evening. "Our main focus is establishing a motive for this crime and we are currently narrowing down the timeframe of when she was attacked," Raphael said."We believe she attended a doctor's appointment nearby around 1.30pm. I would urge anyone who saw Nasim anytime between then and early evening to come forward."Did anyone notice someone running from the area or someone behaving in a suspicious manner? It may well be that the person responsible's clothing will have been bloodstained."It is important that we speak to any person who could provide that little bit of information that could prove vital to our investigation."