A builder who killed six people, including his wife and their two children, in knife attacks on Jersey was convicted of six counts of manslaughter on Friday after a 10-day trial.Damian Rzeszowski, 31, also killed his wife's father, a friend and her daughter with kitchen knives at their home in August last year.The Polish national, who has been held at Broadmoor hospital since his arrest, denied murder, pleading guilty to manslaughter through diminished responsibility – pleas not accepted by the prosecution.The court at St Helier heard that Rzeszowski's marriage had been under strain after his wife confessed to a two-month affair with another man and he threatened to kill himself. His defence argued he had moderate to severe depression, causing an onset of psychotic symptoms. He will be sentenced on 29 October.No members of the victims' families were in court to hear the presiding judge, Sir Michael Birt, read out the verdicts reached by two jurats, whose role is similar to magistrates in the UKThose killed were Rzeszowski's wife, Izabela, 30, daughter, Kinga, five, son, Kacper, two, father-in-law, Marek Garstka, 56, Marta De La Haye, 34, and her five-year-old daughter, Julia.The trial heard that Izabela told him in June 2011 she had been involved in an affair with another man. He had previously caught her flirting with other men online and she had confessed she no longer loved him. In turn, he retaliated by having a one-night stand, which he told his wife about.But after Rzeszowski took an overdose in July last year, the couple agreed they would try to save their marriage and went to Poland to visit their families. On the day of their return to Jersey, his wife and her father went for a barbecue with De La Haye and her daughter, leaving the children in Rzeszowski's care. On their return, they found he had gone out and left the children by themselves. When he reappeared at about 1pm, his wife remonstrated with him.Rzeszowski said he was unable to remember what happened next but the prosecution told the trial the killings began at about 2.45pm. It believed Garstka was the first to be attacked. He was lying on a bed when he was stabbed nine times with two knives.Kacper, was probably playing with a toy car when he was attacked, according to the prosecution. The boy was stabbed 13 times with two different kitchen knives. The girls, who had been painting, were stabbed 16 times each.Rzeszowski, who had been drinking whisky, attacked his wife in the flat but she ran out into a courtyard. As she tried to call the police, she dialled the Polish emergency services number. Out on the street, she was stabbed again in front of neighbours. Her friend, De La Haye, was also attacked and staggered out of the flat before collapsing.As neighbours tried to intervene, Rzeszowski started stabbing himself and fell to the ground with a collapsed lung.The solicitor general, Howard Sharp, told the court that Rzeszowski had a history of violence. He had been involved in up to 10 fights since moving to Jersey in 2005 and was a "pressure cooker who lacks a safety valve".He added: "This is the case of a man who cannot face the prospect of marriage failure and decides that, if the family cannot go on as it is, it must not go on at all."