For 13 days after the murder of her child, Denise Bulger remained hidden from public view. Grief and anger sequestered her in the high-rise flat in the Kirkby area of Liverpool she shared with her husband Ralph in February 1993.But on the day her two-year-old son James's 3ft 4in coffin was taken to the Sacred Heart Church, she stepped out into the fourth car of a 14-vehicle cortege and drove not just to her child's funeral but straight into the heart of a debate that continues to rage to this day.As the 25-year-old emerged from the church, where she had wept as Michael Jackson's Heal the World (her son's favourite song) was played, she could hardly have known that, almost 20 years later, her world would still not have healed, or that her grief and fury would have failed to subside. The woman who kept her pain personal for those 13 days has remained so angry, she refuses to allow her voice to stay unheard."I still have the hate inside me from the day they murdered my James. There will be no closure for me," she said, a few years ago. "I want people to know that I haven't given up."Denise Bulger – now called Fergus, a remarried mother-of-three – campaigned, unsuccessfully, for Thompson and Venables to be kept in prison for the rest of their lives and for that sentence be served in an adult jail. The pair were released after eight years of their sentence in a young offenders' institute.Backed by her former husband Ralph and members of her large, working-class Catholic family, she has ensured that, while her son's killers have a new identity, their old ones are never forgotten. She even told the News of the World how she tracked Robert Thompson down, was "paralysed with hatred" and could not bring herself to confront him.At the murder trial in November 1993 a pregnant Denise Bulger sat in the public gallery, holding hands with her husband and looking down into the dock that held the killers. In spite of their age, she never saw them as children – a sentiment many had great sympathy with. But they were children all the same.Robert Thompson and Jon Venables sat on specially raised chairs so they could see over the dock to Mr Justice Morland. The pair had turned 11 by the time of their court case and they were puffy and fat from incarceration and bemused, baffled and bored by the adult proceedings unfolding before them.In a magazine interview, Denise Fergus said later: "In the courtroom, I could only see their backs. I watched in disgust as their shoulders shuddered. The press reported that they were crying but I swear their shudders were down to arrogant giggles. Were they sorry? Were they hell."But Venables did often cry, seeking a caring glance from his mother, Susan, who instead fidgeted with her handbag, applied some make-up, did anything but look at her son.The court had heard of the breakdown of both the boys' families, of alcoholism, physical abuse, poverty and wanton neglect. But it also heard of a battering inflicted on a petrified James that was so extreme, Laurence Lee, Venables's lawyer, still suffers from nightmares. Few will forget the detail they tried to keep from the court of the batteries rammed into the boy's anus.Yesterday, as he interviewed her on ITV's This Morning, Phillip Schofield suggested there may have been other motivating factors behind the violence from the two 10-year-olds. Denise Fergus said she had never been able to believe that. She said: "The two of them are pure evil in my eyes."There's kids out there in worse circumstances than that and they do not choose to go and murder somebody else's child. And if they are the messages that the law offices are sending out, then they should be changed because there are more and more kids now killing other kids because of Thompson and Venables's release, because they have been rewarded for what they've done rather than punished," she said. "They have given them the best of everything. They were treated and still are getting treated like stars."With Venables returned to custody, her ire has been stoked again; her prediction that her son's killers would reoffend have partly come true.In an interview with the Observer two years ago, she said: "They were 10 years of age but much, much older in their minds. They knew full well what they were doing, yet they've never shown a single shred of remorse."Yet when a tearful Venables confessed to the killing, he had said: "What about his Mum? Tell her I am sorry."For Denise Fergus, "sorry" will never be good enough. Nothing that falls into line with British justice ever will.Audrey Gillan covered the James Bulger case from when it was just a simple disappearance through to the discovery of his body, and went on to write about the hunt for his killers and their arrest and subsequent trial