Disturbing accounts of the final moments of the teenager Anthony Walker, who was murdered when an ice axe was embedded in his head in an allegedly racially motivated attack, were read out in court yesterday.Preston crown court, sitting in Liverpool, heard how Anthony was discovered by passersby lying near the entrance of a park in Huyton, Merseyside, in July. The prosecution claims he was killed for no other reason than the colour of his skin as he walked his girlfriend, Louise Thompson, to a bus stop, accompanied by his cousin Marcus Binns.Michael Barton, 17, is on trial accused of murder, which he denies. His 20-year-old cousin, Paul Taylor, has already pleaded guilty to murder.Sergeant Damian Peers, who was one of the first emergency workers on the scene, said in a statement: "I saw a male lying prostrate at the park entrance by the bollards. He was still and there appeared to me to be an ice pick in his head. I would describe it as the type used by mountaineers."The front of the pick was embedded in his skull, with the claw shape visible to the eye. The male was breathing - but not conscious - and he appeared to be gently shaking."Lawrence Sullivan, a paramedic, said he had to load the stretcher into the ambulance differently because of the position of the axe in Anthony's head. "The axe was then secured to the frame of the stretcher to prevent it moving and potentially causing further injury," he said.Carol Roberts, who lives near the park, said she answered a loud knocking on her door to find Anthony's cousin pleading for help. She said in her statement that his eyes were "wide open with terror and he was extremely agitated"."I knew immediately something terrible had happened," she said. "I could see the fear in his face."Jennifer Molloy was walking home from a shift at a fast-food restaurant when she saw Louise Thompson, who was hysterical in the street."I saw a girl running towards me," she said in her statement. "She was hysterical and crying. I was immediately concerned for her and thought something was desperately wrong. She said: 'My boyfriend's been beaten up by a gang of lads in the park and I don't know where the police station is.'"The trial continues.