The Home Secretary, David Blunkett, will have to speed up parole board hearings for life sentence prisoners after three judges ruled yesterday that he was detaining some unlawfully.The lord chief justice and two appeal court judges ruled that the board's practice of not scheduling hearings till after the expiry of the lifer's tariff, the minimum recommended by the trial judge, was unlawful. Three days ago the European court of human rights in Strasbourg stripped the Home Secretary of his power to detain mandatory lifers, those sentenced to life for murder, after the board has recommended their release. Lord Woolf said yesterday that the Home Office should make more funds available so that, on the tariff expiry date or soon after, the board had the chance to direct whether a prisoner should be released or not. If this did not happen, a prisoner would be entitled to a mandatory order from the courts. The judges were ruling in the case of a prisoner who had been given an automatic life sentence under the so-called "three strikes and you're out" law, after committing a third serious offence, "glassing", or smashing a drinking glass into his victim, in a pub fight. At trial he was given a tariff of 30 months that expired on April 21 last year; his parole hearing was not held until two months later. Leo Noorkoiv remains in prison, since the board considered him a continuing danger to the public. But he challenged the delay in holding his hearing. Lord Justice Buxton said that it was a policy of the board and the Home Secretary that hearing were scheduled for a date after the expiry of the tariff. Both had maintained that lack of resources prevented any improvement in the present arrangement. Kris Gledhill, representing Noorkoiv, had told the judges that the board's procedure contravened the European convention on human rights, which guaranteed the right to a speedy court hearing to challenge the lawfulness of detention. Lord Justice Simon Brown said: "Further resources must be found. No less importantly, the board must devise a new system for pre-tariff expiry date hearings." Lord Woolf said that the state had a duty to arrange the hearings at the end of the tariff period or soon after, because, if the prisoner was no longer a danger and was not released, it was a breach of the convention and domestic law. A Home Office spokesman said: "We are studying the judgment."