I am not a fan of The Archers and find it mostly unlistenable. Sorry, but I think it is a form of class dyslexia – I cannot distinguish one character from another or care about any of them. It is a soap for people who think actual soaps are somehow beneath them, though they manage far more complex characterisation and plot.But even I have noticed that, in between the chutney-making and pig-mingling, the radio show has been trying to jazz itself up and be more “contemporary” with what is actually an extremely old storyline about domestic abuse.A man called Rob who always calls his wife, Helen, “darling” (alarm bells) has been slowly grinding down her confidence. This portrayal of a coercive, controlling, abusive relationship seems to have stunned middle England, that mythical place halfway between Hampstead and Surrey.Playing Helen in the Archers, I hope to show domestic abuse can happen to anyone | Louiza Patikas Helen has been gaslighted: made to feel worthless and possibly mad as Rob seeks to control every aspect of her and her son’s life. She no longer wears what she likes or sees friends; he has deliberately isolated her. This is done in the name of love as he “saved” her from being a single parent.Many women live lives like this. Many listeners have been willing Helen to get away. Women who have been through similar experiences have written bravely and honestly about how they have spent years in this kind of prison, their self-esteem so flattened they have been immobilised.Finally, yesterday, Helen decided to leave Rob and ended up stabbing him. Some listeners have reacted as if this a cop out because they wanted to see Rob brought to court, and to know who would support and believe Helen.Those who work with victims of domestic violence – and we now understand this coercive controlling behaviour to be part of that – already know that it is when a women decides to leave that it becomes even more dangerous for her. In reality the abusive man kills far more often than the abused woman. But this is melodrama.The reality is also that abused women are rarely believed and are often imprisoned for murder. But expecting The Archers to reflect reality is like expecting Radio 4 to include working-class accents in its programming.At last, a domestic violence law that shines a light on coercive control | Kate Bailey So we are left with Rob stabbed, possibly dead, and presumably a tuna bake gone to waste. And the custard never got made.Meanwhile refuges that support some of this country’s most vulnerable women and children are being closed down and we are back to provision levels of 40 years ago. Charities have warned that services nationally have broken down as local authorities are somehow supposed to limit the numbers seeking help. Theresa May has refused to ringfence money for this, yet domestic abuse is increasing: a 31% rise between 2013 and 2015 according to the police. There is an epidemic of domestic violence, but the services to deal with it have been slashed to the bone.As Rob lies bleeding, I would hope that the residents of Ambridge and the show’s listeners realise how common the domestic abuse of everyday folk is. Two women a week are killed by men who “love” them. The Archers has chosen to do it differently. This is not real life and it remains to be seen how the justice system works for Helen. If it dares, The Archers will show that she is not free of him yet.