During his trial for the murder of 15-year-old Kristy Bamu, a boy who called him "uncle", Eric Bikubi showed little emotion. During the most harrowing evidence, when the jury heard how Bikubi had beaten Kristy with a metal pole used for weights or when they were told that after days of torture the boy was so exhausted he had begged to be allowed to die, the former football coach did not flinch. Sitting in the dock, often casually dressed in sports gear, his brow would furrow occasionally, but at other moments he appeared to share a joke with those sitting next to him.Bikubi's defence team entered a guilty plea to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. They argued that the 28-year-old had been diagnosed with a "schizophrenia-like brain disease", likely to cause delusions and hallucinations. But the prosecution insisted Bikubi be tried for murder. They argued that, far from being mentally ill, Bikubi in fact held a "profound and disturbing belief" in witchcraft that had led him to torture, and finally kill, Kristy Bamu.Bikubi's awareness of kindoki – the word for witchcraft in Lingala, his mother tongue – started early. He was born in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in 1983. His mother died during childbirth and he lived with his father, a gold trader. But as a child the shadow of kindoki hung over his life. During the trial, the court heard that from a young age he saw rats and other "abnormal visions". Speaking to a forensic psychiatrist, Dr Tim Rogers, in Pentonville prison, four months after Kristy's death, he explained he was isolated as a child as a result. "It seemed to be he was saying that he'd had the experience of seeing rats and other abnormal visions when they weren't really there," Rogers told jurors. "He was reporting that his family at the time feared that if he went around saying these things he would be labelled as being affected by witchcraft."Aged seven, to escape the chaos of war, Bikubi moved to Dagenham, east London, with several other young relatives and his uncle. The uncle, the only remaining father figure in his life, then died of Aids. But Bikubi appeared to have found a new family when he began an on-off relationship with Magalie Bamu in 2004.A keen footballer who boasted that his skill on the pitch made him popular with women, he was about to start his own academy when he killed Kristy. But he remained preoccupied with sorcery and the belief that he was fighting an ongoing "battle against witchcraft", Rogers told the court. The threat of black magic haunted him, and he had visions of his brother entering his room and trying to strangle him at night. In an attempt to escape the evil spirits, the couple moved from home to home across London, including Hackney, Dagenham, Becontree and Kentish Town, to little effect. During his prison interview Bikubi told the doctor his mental health was "fine", but after his arrest, MRI scans identified he had brain damage likely to have been inflicted in a childhood fall. A specialist said this would have caused schizophrenia-like delusions and psychosis. Bikubi did not seek help: instead he began to pray intensely, researched kindoki on the internet and visited Nigerian pastors in Holloway Road, north London.Bikubi's fear of witchcraft was mingled with a strange kind of arrogance. The court heard he believed he was "the chosen one", with a special ability to sense aspects of other people's character and spirits. When Naomi Ilonga, 23, went to stay with the couple in August 2008 Bikubi accused her of kindoki because she bit her nails.For three days he forced her to fast and deprived her of sleep while the couple prayed over her and he told Bamu to throw out the pots and pans she had touched. But unlike Kristy, Ilonga escaped – calling her mother to come and save her.Bikubi did not give evidence but it was clear his belief in kindoki was undiminished. He told the psychiatrist the "truth about witchcraft" would emerge during the case.