The family of a teenager who died after being run down by a drink driver on Christmas Day branded a court's decision to cut her killer's prison sentence yesterday as "obscene".Craig Smith was over the legal alcohol limit and speeding at up to 54mph when he hit Amy Gonzales, 18, and her boyfriend, Paul Ray, 22, in St Neots High Street, Cambridgeshire. The pair were on their way home from midnight mass. At the court of appeal yesterday, Smith, 22, had his sentence reduced from six years to five years. The three appeal court judges also slashed his driving ban from 15 years to seven years. Ms Gonzales, a student who wanted to become a dance teacher, died four weeks after Smith ran her over in his BMW. Her family has since campaigned for tougher sentences for drink drivers. Speaking after the court's ruling, her mother, Melanie, said: "I just can't understand how somebody with such a callous disregard for human life can only be put away for five years." But the judges said that, though they did not wish to add to the pain suffered by the family, they were obliged to follow sentencing principles laid down in previous cases. In April, Smith, from Eaton Socon in Cambridgeshire, pleaded guilty at Peterborough crown court to causing death by dangerous driving and driving under the influence of alcohol. At the trial, the court heard that Ms Gonzales was crossing the road with her boyfriend, a trainee teacher, when they were hit by Smith at around 1am. Mr Ray suffered a collapsed lung and serious leg injuries. Amy's parents were waiting to take her home around the corner in the market square when she was hit. Her father, Kevin, ran to the scene of the accident, only to find his daughter "terribly injured". A breath test revealed that Smith had 54mg of alcohol in 100ml of breath. The legal limit is 35mg. Mrs Justice Hallett, sitting with Lord Justice Rose and Mrs Justice Dobbs, said that had Smith been driving at 30mph he would have been able to stop in time instead of going into a skid. Mr Gonzales said: "We keep thinking back to Christmas morning. At one o'clock on Christmas morning, Craig Smith destroyed our family in front of us. Although he's got five years, he will be out in two, and out in the town where we raised all our families." Mrs Justice Hallett said Smith, who had no previous driving convictions apart from a fixed penalty for speeding, had shown genuine remorse, although Ms Gonzales's family understandably found that difficult to accept. She said he was not normally criminally irresponsible, but, on that Christmas morning, he had driven dangerously and "killed a lovely young girl who had everything to live for and caused untold misery for her family". She added: "No doubt for Mr Gonzales and his family no sentence would be long enough for someone who robbed them of their lovely Amy." But road safety campaigners said cutting Smith's sentence "made a mockery" of road safety laws. Caroline Chisholm, of Brake, said: "It's disgraceful that the appeal courts have shown leniency to drunk-driver Craig Smith, while the family of Amy Gonzales is left to serve a life sentence."