From the moment Joan Stirland's son Michael O'Brien shot dead 22-year-old Marvyn Bradshaw outside a Nottingham pub, her life and that of her husband, John, were under threat from the crime boss Colin Gunn and his henchmen. These are the events that led to their deaths, and the subsequent investigation of the way intelligence was shared between Nottinghamshire and Lincolnshire police forces.  August 30, 2003 Michael O'Brien, Joan Stirland's son from a previous marriage, shoots dead Marvyn Bradshaw in a car outside the Sporting Chance pub in Nottingham. Colin Gunn's nephew, Jamie Gunn, is in the car at the same time Bradshaw is shot and holds his friend as he dies.  September 2003  The Stirlands flee Nottingham and move to Yorkshire after shots are fired at their house in a quiet suburban street in the Carlton district of the city.  July 12, 2004  O'Brien, 23, is convicted of murdering Bradshaw and is jailed for a minimum of 24 years at Nottingham crown court.  August 2, 2004  Jamie Gunn, 19, dies of pneumonia, having turned to drink and drugs to help him cope with the trauma of losing his friend. More than 700 people attend his funeral.  August 8, 2004  After spending time in Yorkshire the Stirlands move to Lincolnshire. On the day they die, they make two phone calls to police complaining about a prowler outside their bungalow in the seaside resort of Trusthorpe. Hours later, 55-year-old John Stirland is found dead alongside his wife, 51-year-old nurse Joan.  December 24, 2004  The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) says it will investigate how Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire police forces shared information on the Stirlands.  June 30, 2006  Colin Gunn, then 39, of Revelstoke Way, Rise Park, is jailed for 35 years after being found guilty of conspiracy to murder the Stirlands. John Russell, 29, of Northcote Way, Nottingham, is jailed for a minimum of 30 years, and Michael McNee, 22, of no fixed address, is jailed for at least 25 years for the same crime. The court hears how police tracked more than 7,000 phone calls during the investigation. The Stirlands had been shot dead at close range by men dressed in boiler suits.  May 14, 2007  The IPCC refers its file to the Crown Prosecution Service to decide whether officers in Nottinghamshire police should be prosecuted for failing to carry out their duties.  August 2, 2007  Colin Gunn is handed another nine-year jail term after he is convicted of engaging two police to search for information on the police national computer. Gunn had used a trainee detective, Charles Fletcher, to find out how close police were to catching him. Fletcher, 27, was also asked to obtain information about the murder of a Nottingham jeweller, Marian Bates, a crime in which Gunn was at one point implicated. Gunn used Fletcher and another officer, PC Phil Parr, 41, through an intermediary, Jason Grocock, the manager of a Nottingham clothing store. Fletcher is jailed for seven years. Parr, who played a lesser role, is given 12 months. Grocock is jailed for four years.  August 29, 2007  The CPS decides no charges should be brought against any of the officers involved with the Stirland case.  December 9, 2007  Joan Stirland's daughter, Rosie, tells the Sunday Times newspaper she plans to sue Nottinghamshire police for failing to protect her parents. She reveals an unfinished letter her mother apparently wrote to police: "We are on anti-depressants plus sleeping pills etc. We have done nothing wrong. We are decent, innocent people. We have worked all our lives and now we have nothing. We are desperate to get out of Goole, so desperate [that] if we are not out by Christmas you will be taking us out in a box." February 22, 2008  The IPCC publishes its report.