The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Monday 14 September 2009In the article below about the Intensive Supervision and Surveillance Programme (ISSP), a community-based scheme intended to reduce youth reoffending, we reported Frances Done – chairwoman of the Youth Justice Board, which runs the programme – as saying that the reoffending rate among young people who are imprisoned is 97%. She has asked us to make clear that this is the conviction rate of a small comparative group of young people who have been imprisoned for offences similar to those committed by those on the ISSP. The overall reconviction rate for young people after a prison term, she said, is nearer 75%. A government programme that is supposed to help rehabilitate the worst youth offenders should be scrapped as nine out of 10 people who go on it reoffend, a new study will say tomorrow.The Intensive Supervision and Surveillance Programme (ISSP) covers criminals aged between 10 and 17 who have committed offences so serious that they would be jailed for up to 14 years if they were adults.Researchers at the University of Portsmouth concluded the scheme was endangering the public and failing to stop criminal behaviour.The study found that the main failings of the ISSP were that it provided inadequate supervision to protect the public and the scheme was not rigorously enforced.Offenders are supposed to be electronically tagged 24 hours a day, and have a personally designed programme aimed at changing criminal behaviour.Two of the three researchers behind the study have worked previously for the government. One of them, Tom Ellis, said: "ISSP doesn't work. It is time to stop flogging a dead horse."What they [the youngsters] are really asking for is to be removed from their environment, taught job-related skills and given supervision in the form of structured mentoring."The study found that while some offenders preferred ISSP's because it was easier than jail, they thought imprisonment would be more likely to stop them reoffending.According to the study one youth said: "In prison they work on the future, but on the ISSP they concentrate on the past. Prison has an impact on your personality and it sticks in your head ... I think the ISSP is pointless because you don't come away with anything."Another youth said: "Prison is better because it takes you out of your own town where you always get into trouble. The ISSP keeps you in the same place. "The study found one offender and a supervisor agreeing that youths knew how to play the system. One said: "You just tell the workers what they want to hear and then carry on as normal."The study accused the Youth Justice Board, which runs the scheme, of spinning the results of its own research into the scheme's success: "In reading these evaluations, and their related press releases, it is often hard to distinguish between public relations content and academic evaluation."Frances Done, chair of the Youth Justice Board said: "We have confidence in the scheme and what it can do."She said the reoffending rate of youngsters who were imprisoned was 97%, and that secure accommodation cost £75,000 per youth, compared to the scheme's cost of £7,000 per place.Done said research her organisation had commissioned from the University of Oxford showing the scheme was "reducing the frequency that young people offend and the seriousness of offences".She also criticised the University of Portsmouth study: "We're not impressed by the research. It covers two schemes out of 100 that are running at the moment. The conclusions are very sweeping."New figures show that two-thirds of jails are holding far more people than they are designed to. Figures from the Prison Reform Trust show 88 out of 140 jails are holding 8,865 people more than their official capacity. Prisons in England and Wales currently hold a record 84,150 inmates, up 3,000 in two years, despite around 2,500 prisoners being released early every month.