The "wicked" boyfriend of Jodi Jones was found guilty yesterday of tying up and murdering her in a horrific attack when he was just 14 years old.In June 2003, Luke Mitchell, now 16, slit 14-year-old Jodi's throat and repeatedly stabbed her. As the foreman of the jury at the high court in Edinburgh read out the verdict, Jodi's family sobbed. Mitchell, the boy Jodi believed she loved, showed no emotion."You have been convicted of a truly evil murder - one of the most appalling crimes that any of us can remember - and you will rightly be regarded as wicked," Lord Nimmo Smith told Mitchell, who faces "detention without limit of time".Mitchell, who had an obsession with the occult, had tried to cover his crime by burning his clothes and fabricating an alibi, backed by his mother. But, by majority verdict, the jury found him guilty, bringing to a close one of the biggest and most complex criminal investigations mounted in Scotland in many years. Detective Superintendent Craig Dobbie, who led the inquiry, said: "I'm delighted that the jury had the courage to make what was a very difficult decision but one which was the correct decision." In a statement, Jodi's mother, Judith, said her daughter had not been allowed to grow up, but her memory would live on. "She often spoke many words of wisdom to me, thus my little mentor Jodi will live always in all of us. She remains my strength," she said.Throughout the trial, Mitchell was portrayed as a detached and arrogant youth who had shown no remorse. His cool arrogance was, however, to be his undoing.A few hours after the killing, Mitchell brazenly took Jodi's family straight to where the 14-year-old lay, hidden behind a gap in a wall. Her family collapsed in grief; he barely registered emotion.Jodi Jones's killing was, said the prosecuting counsel Alan Turnbull QC, "the most gruesome murder in recent years". He spoke of the murder of a girl by the boy she said she loved, a boyfriend who kept a knife pouch with the numbers 666, Jodi's initials and the years of her birth and death scrawled upon it. "A more inappropriate memento it might be hard to think of," said Mr Turnbull. From the outset, Mitchell was the police's prime suspect. Jodi had left home at teatime on June 30 2003 saying she was going to meet her boyfriend. He claimed she had never arrived. But he had never raised the alarm, never tried to get hold of her. There was, of course, no point. Mitchell knew Jodi was lying dead in bushes by Roan's Dyke, a shortcut between their homes.But there was no direct link to Mitchell. Forensic examination proved fruitless: Mitchell had used a woodburner to destroy the parka jacket he had been wearing that night. A week later his mother, who has been warned she may face perjury charges, bought him a new parka, and denied he had ever previously owned one. On the day of her murder, Jodi left her home in the Easthouses area of Dalkeith, Midlothian, at 4.50pm to meet Mitchell at his home after exchanging texts with him. She kissed her mother, Judith, and said: "That's me off now, mum." It was the last time her family saw her alive. But it was not the last time others saw her. As Andrina Bryson passed Roan's Dyke at 4.55pm, on her way home from a shopping trip, she saw a teenager whom she later identified as Mitchell, with a girl. Mr Turnbull said the identification was the first of three key pieces of evidence that pointed to Mitchell's guilt. A few minutes after Mrs Bryson saw Mitchell with Jodi, he tied the girl up with her trousers, slit her throat as she kneeled or sat, and then went home, seemingly calm. At around 5.40pm, he telephoned Jodi's home and spoke to her mother's partner, Allen Ovens. Mr Ovens told Mitchell Jodi had already left to meet him. He replied: "OK, cool." In his statement to police, Mitchell said Jodi had simply not turned up. He did not think anything of it. There were, he said, any number of reasons why she would not turn up. After murdering Jodi, Mitchell smoked cannabis with his friends. Mitchell may have been calm, but his story was erratic. The accounts he gave of why he never showed any concern over Jodi's non-appearance varied with every person he spoke to: his friends, Jodi's family, the police. It was these fabrications that initially roused police suspicions. Mitchell was Jodi's first real boyfriend. She wrote in her diary: "'I think I am actually in love with Luke, well nearly." The affection, from the outset, was misplaced. Mitchell was two-timing Jodi. Oblivious to this, Jodi fell for Mitchell. They liked the same goth music and clothes. Mitchell was the school bad boy. He dealt cannabis, carried knives and boasted that he knew how to slit someone's throat. He also liked to scrawl satanic messages on his school books. It was in part, no doubt, adolescent bravado. But a teacher told the court some of his writings were "deeply disturbing".Mitchell and Jodi had a liking for Marilyn Manson, an American rock star who likes to shock. Manson revels in his obsession with the 1947 killing of actor Elizabeth Short, the notorious Black Dahlia murder. Mitchell owned artwork by the singer inspired by the killing. When asked to compare Jodi's murder with the Black Dahlia case, forensic pathologist Professor Anthony Busuttil told the court: "In terms of the location and type of the injuries, there is a similarity." At the time of Jodi's murder, Mitchell claimed he was at home making dinner for his family. His mother, Corinne, gave him an alibi to that effect. The evidence of Mitchell's brother, Shane, however, blew apart that alibi. Computer records showed that between 4.53pm and 5.16pm Shane Watson had been looking at porn on the internet. Giving evidence, he admitted he had been masturbating. He said he would not have done so if anyone else had been in the house at the time. The third key piece of evidence damning Mitchell came from Jodi's family. Shortly after 11pm on the night Jodi disappeared, her grandmother, Alice Walker, her sister, Janine, and Janine's fiance, Steven Kelly, went to look for Jodi. They took torches and headed for Roan's Dyke. At the other end of the pathway, they saw Mitchell. Together, they began the search. At around 11.30pm, they passed a wall with a V-shaped gap. Jodi's family walked past it, but Mitchell headed straight for the gap. In a statement to police, he told the court that his dog, Mia, had placed her paws on the wall and began sniffing. No other member of the party remembered this. Instead, they said, Mitchell had led them to the spot where he killed Jodi. Janine said Mitchell "showed no emotion". Jodi's family were gripped by hysterics; Mitchell's bravado faltered only when he spoke on the phone to the police. But, in leading Jodi's family to her body, Mitchell ultimately led the police to her killer.