Every child death is a tragedy, but it is time that the media and government stopped demanding inquiries and wanting answers (50 injuries, 60 visits - failures that led to the death of Baby P, November 12). The brutal fact is that there are no answers. Social workers try their hardest to keep children with their families because we know that so many of the children who go into care end up homeless or in prison. Every day social workers, often with heavy caseloads, try to keep families together despite the horrendous lack of mental health and other resources that so many of the parents and children need. Since the death of Dennis O'Neil in 1945 there have been dozens of child abuse and child death inquiries, seeking to apportion blame and "learn the lessons". Local authorities and child protection services have been repeatedly rejigged, and new strategies rolled out. Has the number of children killed dropped? Sadly it has not. We need to stop seeking answers and start putting money into preventive work and family support - without social workers constantly looking over their shoulders at "risk" - and ultimately sending so many children into a care system that offers so very little.Dr C RitchieSchool of health and social care, Oxford Brookes UniversityThe Guardian's account of the death of Baby P makes almost unbearable reading. As an educator and consultant in safeguarding and child protection, I am loth to comment on the conduct of the workers involved without more information. The task of all workers involved in making child protection decisions is complex and challenging. Swift judgments inevitably lead to a polarisation of blame, which does nothing to improve the practice and accountability of workers, and, most importantly, can contribute to endangering children rather than keep them safe.However, I do feel able to comment on those parts of your coverage that I find irresponsible. I am at a loss to understand how photos of "soiled and bloodstained clothing" add to the coverage. Rather, they contribute a sense of the unpleasantly voyeuristic, as do the computer generated images of the child's injuries. Do readers have such a paucity of imagination that they need to be shown a representation of a baby's injured face?Elizabeth HayLondonYour measured report on the death of Baby P demonstrates how we are continuing to assert the rights of parents over our responsibility to ensure all children get the best possible start in life. The preconditions required for a care order under the 1989 Children Act are that a child is suffering or is likely to suffer significant harm because of a lack of reasonable parental care. Despite considerable evidence of neglect, injury and poor parenting, the lawyers concluded that this threshold had not been reached and that therefore the court would not support the removal of this child from his mother.Rather than the avoidance of harm, we could choose to judge reasonable parenting in terms of whether a child's safety, health and achievement would be significantly improved if they were looked after by someone else. The choice is between the right of parents to care for children in the way they see fit, as long as they do not cause harm, or our responsibility to ensure positive outcomes for children.Martin WillisInstitute of local government studies, University of BirminghamThe sad case of Baby P raises many issues, but as a retired paediatric social worker one issue strikes me particularly.My job was based in the hospital, and we all worked as a close team with the child as our main concern. The paediatricians, the nurses and I shared concerns and trusted each other. We also had close links with GPs, health visitors, school nurses and so on. In the last 10 years social workers have increasingly been taken out of hospitals by local authorities, and so the close working relationships are not there. If a different social worker appears for each referral the links will not be there, and so the children and their families suffer. Hilary RyderReading