Derry is to be the UK's City of Culture in 2013, a distinction justly celebrated by all parts of the community. It's for this and other achievements that one leading citizen described Derry as "a great city on the rise".However, there is another side to this great city, which stems from the violent legacy of the Troubles. More than 200 young men have been forced out of their homes in Derry by Republican vigilantes.On 14 May 2012 the Guardian ran a front-page story about the violence that also claimed the life of a young boxer, Andrew Allen, 24, who had taken refuge over the border in County Donegal.In the original story (Fear and republican vigilantes stalk new city of culture, 14 May, page 1), the Guardian said 200 young men had been forced out in a year – an estimate by community groups – and that 85 had been shot over the same period "in 'punishment' attacks by Republican Action Against Drugs (RAAD), according to police figures".Within 24 hours, the author of the article realised he had made a mistake and contacted the readers' editor before we had received any formal complaints. He said the figures should be 85 shootings over three years, and I published a correction to that effect on 15 May.Readers were still not convinced that the figures were right. One wrote: "If you read the following clarification, [in the Derry Journal] in response to your story, you will see that local police have confirmed the real figures for so-called paramilitary-style attacks. Derry is a safe city and a city I'm proud of, but it saddens me to read that one of the more respected daily publications seems to be misapportioning or inflating figures as well as giving some sort of credence to an unrepresented and unwanted criminal element posing as republicans."I would also very much doubt the claim that these thugs were ever members of Sinn Féin. At the very least, you could clarify the figures used and back up the claims made instead of making sweeping generalisations."One reader made a formal complaint to the Press Complaints Commission, which was dealt with by Elisabeth Ribbans, the Guardian's managing editor.The figures were indeed still wrong, as was the correction. A further correction brokered by the PCC was published on the 6 July: "A correction published on 15 May, page 33, regarding an article on vigilante violence in Derry, said there had been 85 shootings in the city over the past three years, not over the past year as the article originally stated. Since our article and the correction were published, information released to the BBC by the Northern Ireland ambulance service and Derry's Altnagelvin hospital gave a lower figure of 40 men shot in paramilitary-style attacks in the Derry area since 2008. A further five people were shot in nearby Strabane and another three over the border in Donegal – this includes the killing in February 2012 of Derry man Andrew Allen. The PSNI said there had been 16 casualties as a result of paramilitary-style attacks (11 shootings and five assaults) in the region including Derry and Strabane in the 12 months to 31 March 2012. This statistic does not include pipe bomb attacks by RAAD (Republican Action Against Drugs) or the Donegal murder. The original article also quoted Derry-based John Lindsay, author of a new book on the violence, saying: 'On average there are about four young men being forced out of the city by RAAD and other vigilante groups per week,' about 200 in the past year. Mr Lindsay has told us the estimate of 200 should have been for the three-year period. However, large numbers of expulsions have been reported over short time frames: on 30 April 2012, the Irish Times reported a community worker from the Peace and Reconciliation Group saying that in the previous week alone five young men had been forced to leave Derry."I think the violence in Derry is an important issue that fully warranted investigation – BBC's Newsnight devoted a long film to the subject. As the Guardian's story said: "In some instances those targeted, mostly in their teens or early 20s, have been forced to turn up with a parent or relative for a pre-arranged appointment to be wounded for alleged drug dealing and other supposed crimes."However, quoting the wrong figures undermined both the story and then the correction – which I should have double-checked.