The trial of a French car salesman accused of killing his British mother-in-law and attempting to murder his estranged wife began yesterday.Cherif Doua, 42, faces charges of stabbing Valerie Brocklesby, 62, to death at her home in West Bromwich in January 2000. He is also alleged to have stabbed his then wife, Jayne, repeatedly before fleeing to France. Jayne Brocklesby survived.The trial, in Beauvais, 60 miles north of Paris, heard Mr Doua had stabbed Valerie Brocklesby to death with a kitchen knife before turning on his wife and saying: "I have killed your mother. I am going to kill you. I have to kill you." His former wife had to undergo surgery for stab wounds to her face and neck after Mr Doua left her for dead. He was arrested in France the following month after an international manhunt and has been in custody since then. Ms Brocklesby, 32, a sales consultant, met Mr Doua in Spain but they moved back to the West Midlands after their marriage. The court heard the couple split up in 1999 and that Ms Brocklesby informed him she was filing for divorce on New Year's Day in 2000. Looking sophisticated in the dock - French press have described him as having "le look de playboy" - Mr Doua told the court about the alleged attack: "I was like a madman ... I couldn't control myself. I was destroying myself, Jayne and Valerie." He said he had considered committing suicide as his life had "collapsed", adding: "I couldn't live without her. When I killed Jayne's mother everything collapsed. I couldn't be apart from Jayne ... at that moment I wanted to kill myself." The trial is being held in France because Mr Doua cannot be extradited to the UK. West Midlands police, who conducted the original investigation, had cooperated with French police and attended the trial, which is expected to last four days. A report by an investigating magistrate in France, which was read to the court, stated that Mr Doua "acknowledged the facts" of the murder and the attempted murder. But his legal team are expected to argue that the attacks were not premeditated and that he did not intend to kill the pensioner or try to kill his wife. The court also heard from Ms Brocklesby. She said she was woken up by Mr Doua after he had killed her mother, telling her he loved her and saying: "It's too late, it's too late." She said she walked into the kitchen to find her mother in a pool of blood. Mr Doua then began attacking her. "Part of me wanted to die because of what happened to my mother," she said. "But there was also a voice telling me" 'Close your eyes and don't move and he will go away.'" The trial was adjourned until today.