Jurors should be allowed to decide if celebrities caught on camera snorting white powder were taking illegal drugs, the Met police commissioner, Sir Ian Blair, claims today.Blair referred to a recent case when Kate Moss was pictured in a newspaper snorting lines of white powder but no charges were brought. Jurors should be allowed to decide if suspects were taking illegal substances, he told the London Evening Standard.He was criticised by Ken MacDonald, the director of public prosecutions, who said his analysis was "wide of the mark". Blair said: "The investigation of these cases is difficult due to there being no substance that can be forensically analysed. We are keen to explore whether there are further options that can be considered." Blair said it was "reasonable" for a defendant to have to convince a jury that the substances were legal. A juror might ask: " You convince me that you're taking talcum powder because ... that's an unusual way to take it. My position is that a sensible jury would not expect people to be sniffing talcum powder." MacDonald said: "If he is accurately quoted, he appears to have completely misunderstood the law. The issue was not whether the white powder that Kate Moss was snorting was cocaine or talcum powder." "The law required us to prove that it was either a class A drug or a class B drug. We could only base our case on one of these options. It was impossible for us to do this since cocaine - a class A drug - and amphetamine - a class B drug are both white powders. "Any suggestion that the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) does not prosecute celebrities is untrue - we will prosecute when the police provide us with sufficient evidence to do so." Scotland Yard was reported to have spent £250,000 investigating the footage of Moss apparently snorting cocaine through a rolled-up £5 note but prosecutors said they could not prove what the substance was. It could have been ecstasy or amphetamines which attract different penalties. The pictures cost the supermodel a series of lucrative modelling contracts but her career has since recovered.