The mother of a man with paranoid schizophrenia who was detained for stabbing a schoolgirl to death on a bus has said her son was "crying out for help" before the attack but was "badly let down by the system".Against the advice of a number of psychiatrists, Phillip Simelane was released on to the streets, with "no treatment, no place to go and nowhere to live", his mother said.While "desperately sad" about the death of Christina Edkins, 16, the mother, who asked to be named only as Priscilla, said she believed both families had been let down by the system. She said she loved her son and was glad that at last he was receiving treatment.Earlier this week a judge at Birmingham crown court ordered that Simelane, 23, be detained indefinitely under the Mental Health Act after he pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility.An inquiry led by the Birmingham and Solihull mental health trust is examining the actions of different agencies that came into contact with him before the attack to examine how he was left without care.He was released from jail three months after serving a sentence for threatening his mother with a knife. While in prison experts said he should receive help after he was freed but he received no support. It was only after he killed Christina as she travelled to school that he was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia.Priscilla said on Friday: "Phillip was ill – he was suffering from paranoid schizophrenia – and, as the psychiatrist in the case has stated, his actions were a direct result of his illness. It wouldn't have happened had he not been suffering from this illness."At the time this happened Phillip was crying out for help and yet that help just wasn't there for him. He was receiving no treatment, had no place to go and nowhere to live – he was even forbidden by the authorities to live in our house even though I wanted to help him."This is all despite the fact that several psychiatrists had said he should have been having treatment. He has been badly let down by the system and the authorities, as have both families."Mrs Justice Thirlwall said during the sentencing that anyone who heard the facts of the case would be disturbed to hear that Simelane was "living in the community with an illness of that severity, living rough with no medical help or indeed any other help at all".The court had heard this week that Priscilla had made repeated requests for help as his behaviour deteriorated. A bright student, he had started to become paranoid as a teenager. He became more withdrawn, stopped washing, and said he was afraid to leave his room. He attacked Christina because he perceived her as a threat.Priscilla, who is co-operating with the inquiry, added: "I hope very much that going forward much better systems and processes are put in place to help people with illnesses like Phillip to make sure that there isn't a repeat of a tragedy like this. I love my son and am comforted that at least he is now getting the treatment he has needed for a long time."