Ameen Jogee, whose retrial at Nottingham crown court became a test of revised “joint enterprise” laws, has been sentenced to 12 years in prison for the manslaughter of a former police officer.His conviction and sentence replace his previous term of 20 years for murder, which the supreme court quashed this year after ruling that judges had repeatedly misinterpreted the law.Jogee was 22 when Paul Fyfe was stabbed to death at the home of his girlfriend in Leicester in June 2011. The prosecution claimed Jogee “egged on” another man, Mohammed Hirsi, to strike the fatal blow against Fyfe, a father of three.Jailing him, the judge Gregory Dickinson said: “Paul Fyfe was attacked in his own home. It was unprovoked and totally without justification. The consequences for his family were and remain devastating. “This was not a spur of the moment event. You and Hirsi went to the home … late at night intending to attack Paul Fyfe and to cause him some harm. You intended to encourage Hirsi to attack Mr Fyfe.” Jogee, now 27, has served more than five years in custody, which will count towards his sentence. So-called joint enterprise laws allowed the accomplice to be treated the same as the person who committed the deadly act.In February, however, the supreme court ruled that for the past 30 years judges had been misinterpreting a key justification for obtaining convictions, confusing the fact that an outcome might be foreseeable with criminal intent.The supreme court judges ordered Jogee to be retried on murder and manslaughter charges. He denied both charges and was cleared of murder after 13 hours of deliberation, but a jury unanimously convicted him of manslaughter last Monday. During the retrial, the jury heard that Fyfe, 47, was stabbed in the early hours of 10 June 2011 while Jogee stood on the doorstep. William Harbage QC, prosecuting, said Jogee encouraged Hirsi to stab Fyfe. The jury heard Jogee and Hirsi were frustrated when they arrived at the home of Naomi Reid, the girlfriend of the victim, after being refused entry into another friend’s house in the early hours of the morning. Reid asked the pair to leave before Fyfe returned. They did and she sent a text message to Jogee asking him not to bring Hirsi back to her home, the jury heard. The pair later returned to the property, by which time Fyfe had arrived back from work. Hirsi took a knife from the kitchen and grabbed Reid, Fyfe stood between the pair and asked Hirsi: “What are you going to do, stab me?” Defending Jogee, Felicity Gerry QC said her client was not a murderer and that Fyfe’s death was a “surprise”. She added: “He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time. He had no idea what was going on in the house.”Gloria Morrison, one of the leading activists in Joint Enterprise: Not Guilty By Association, which campaigned to reform the law, welcomed the the jury’s rejection of the murder conviction. The court of appeal has begun considering a number of test challenges that could have implications for hundreds of prisoners convicted under joint enterprise rules.