Helen Carter's report on Shafilea Ahmed's death (Parents jailed for life, 4 August) highlights a tragedy for the communities and her siblings but it also raises broader complex issues for society as well. Carter is right in her observation about cultures in collision. In the late 1990s we published a series of studies on rates of self-harm across communities. These studies showed rates of self-harm in south Asian women aged 18-24 were three times higher than their British counterparts. They were more likely to attempt self-harm as a result of domestic violence, alcohol abuse and cultural conflict. This is the vulnerable age when individuals start to assert their identity and move away from home and individuate.Prior to writing the reports we presented these findings to members of south Asian communities, largely women in public meetings in south and west London. Women and men who attended responded by saying that they knew this was going on and urged us to educate parents, peers and the wider community about the causes. We produced educational leaflets which in a follow-up study revealed that the knowledge about self-harm and potential sources of help had gone up.Education about cultural values and the role that cultural assimilation can play is critical if future tragedies such as this are to be avoided.Dinesh BhugraProfessor of mental health and cultural diversity, King's College London• The problem the UK and the entire world faces in light of the murder of Shafilea Ahmed and many other similar cases is not just that of honour killings. The real issue is the very notion of honour that's pervasive in conservative Muslim societies. Many people in these communities strongly believe that women are representative of and carry with them their entire family's dignity, and men are responsible for keeping them in check.Growing up in such a culture, I was constantly reprimanded by men who asked how I could allow girls in my family to dress and act the way they do. I never knew how to respond, because the idea that women are autonomous human beings who have the right to do what they wish with their bodies is foreign to many men in this ultra-patriarchal society.Sentencing Shafilea's parents for the murder of their daughter is a step in the right direction, but the only real solution is for Muslims to radically change their societies to rid them of this oppressive, tribalist concept of "honour".Abdullah AlhomoudSulaibikhat, Kuwait• Reading about the conviction of Shafilea Ahmed's parents of her murder, the tragic loss of such a young life is shocking. Shafilea had the courage to refuse a forced marriage imposed by her parents and paid with her life. The freedom to accept or refuse a husband is a right granted to all women by Islam. While violence against women is not an issue for one culture only, it is well overdue for some to abandon the old traditions and to live in the modern world.Mohammed SamaanaBelfast• I strongly support your leading article (A girl betrayed, 4 August). However, it should be recognised that "honour killings" are merely the tip of the iceberg. What remains hidden is the widespread denial in the UK of basic human rights to many Muslim women. In practice, "justice" is often only available to such women through Sharia courts. Sharia law is, at least to a large extent, incompatible with basic human rights. For example, the evidence of a female witness is worth half that of a man.The spotlight needs to be shone on the treatment of women in many Muslim communities in the UK. Until that is done and all Muslim women are empowered to enjoy the same rights as non-Muslim women, this ill-treatment will continue and we shall, almost certainly, see the death of more victims such as Shafilea Ahmed.Chris PeelerWendover, Buckinghamshire• Jacqueline Rose claims that Shafilea Ahmed's case should not be used to stigmatise a minority community (A crime meshed in migration and modernity, 6 August). What if a significant section of that community supports honour killings or refuses to face the issue head-on? Moreover, there is enough empirical evidence to show that honour killings are largely specific to Muslim and Sikh communities. No doubt we need to approach the subject of honour killings with great care, making sure we do not tar the entire Muslim community with the same brush. But we also need to remember the saying attributed to Aristotle: "Plato is dear to me, but dearer still is truth."Randhir Singh BainsGants Hill, Essex• The judge told the parents of Shafilea Ahmed: "Your concern about being shamed in your community was greater than the love of your child." I believe the vast majority of Pakistanis and Muslims would be utterly ashamed to have any association with this couple. Child abuse, domestic violence and then murder. A truly heart-wrenching case but justice was achieved in the end. Rest in peace now, Shafilea.Emilie LamploughTrowbridge, Wiltshire• Your editorial, reflecting on the grotesque circumstances of Shafilea Ahmed's abuse and murder by her parents, appears just two weeks after you defended the "right" of Jewish and Muslim parents to mutilate their children in the context of the German court's decision on circumcision. Giles Fraser appeased such child abuse (circumcision) with references to culture, tradition and belonging – in a paper that (at least this week) sees "no licence granted to those who claim cultural protection for brutality".John KellyLittle Raveley, Cambridgeshire• The case of Shafilea Ahmed highlights the concern and even fear that officials and the public have in reporting cases like this to the relevant authorities. Your report states: "If awkward questions were asked, the Ahmeds would claim they were victims of racial prejudice." This all- too-common fallback position is surely of significance for the appalling lack of information in the public domain concerning the incidence of what is undoubtedly a more widespread and unrecognised tragedy. John BushellEydon, Northamptonshire