Witnesses who gave evidence against freelance journalist Ian Bailey in his controversial libel action have been asked by the family of a murder victim to do the same in a civil action planned for later this year.In an extraordinary hearing that has gripped Ireland for the past six weeks, Manchester-born Bailey, 46, lost his case against six newspapers over articles which linked him with the brutal death of a French woman, Sophie Toscan du Plantier, in a remote part of County Cork, seven years ago. He was awarded minimal damages from the Irish Sun and the Irish Mirror on a related issue. During the case, several witnesses testified that Bailey had admitted to them, in various circumstances, that he had killed the 38-year-old film-maker. He vigorously denied the accusations. All the witnesses approached by the family's solicitor have so far agreed to help. In all, 26 people gave evidence, including Bailey's neighbours, senior gardaí who took part in the investigation and reporters. Robert Dore, the Dublin solicitor for Toscan du Plantier's family, who are planning the civil action for damages against Bailey for her unlawful killing, said they were encouraged by the success of the libel trial. 'We would have preferred that all eight newspapers be cleared. But the technicality over which the other two were fined had nothing to do with what was published about Sophie's death,' said her mother, Marguerite Bouniol. If no criminal case is brought, Bouniol says the family will go ahead with the civil suit they filed against Bailey in December 2002, for the unlawful death of their daughter. 'We're putting all our hope in the revelations that came out in the libel trial,' Bouniol said. 'For justice to be done, for Sophie, but also for the people who so bravely testified.'One key witness who has been approached by Dore had agreed immediately to help the dead woman's family. 'I received a phone call from the solicitor. He asked me would I be prepared to go to court again and I said yes,' the witness said.Dore said he believed Judge Patrick Moran's verdict would be a 'big boost' to their case. Speaking after the verdict was announced last Monday, he said: 'It's heartening from our point of view that a circuit court judge felt that on the balance of probability, that which was published by eight newspapers relating to Ian Bailey's involvement in the unlawful death of Sophie Toscan du Plantier was true,' he said. 'In our civil action, we have the same onus of proof. It's a balance of probabilities; not "beyond all reasonable doubt".' During the case, 18 local people gave evidence in the two-week trial which was heard in December and concluded last Monday morning at Cork's Circuit Court. Judge Moran said he accepted the evidence of a number of witnesses who claimed Bailey had admitted to them that he had killed du Plantier, a mother of one and wife of the renowned French film producer, Daniel Toscan du Plantier. These included Malachi Reed, then aged 14, who said Bailey had confessed to him that that he had 'bashed her fucking brains in' and locals Rosie and Ritchie Shelley, who claimed he had told them on New Year's Eve 1998 that he had committed the murder. 'I accept that he did say that,' said Judge Moran. 'I think it was a case of further self-publicity and was probably drink-induced.' He also accepted the evidence of shopkeeper Marie Farrell, who said she had seen Bailey a mile from Toscan du Plantier's house in the early hours of the morning after her murder. Although Bailey insisted he had never met Toscan du Plantier, one witness, neighbour Alfie Lyons, said he was 80 or 90 per cent certain he had introduced the pair, which the judge took to be true. Judge Moran also accepted that Bailey had been seen burning a fire on Boxing Day, three days after the murder, although he added that what was being burnt was 'anyone's guess'. Until his death last year, Toscan du Plantier's widower Daniel continued to criticise the Irish criminal justice system because no one had been charged with his wife's murder.