The parents of a teenager whose body was discovered in a river beat her and stole money from her bank account, it was claimed at an inquest yesterday.Shafilea Ahmed, 17, had been worried that she was being forced to marry against her will, and had been the victim of domestic abuse at the hands of her parents, the hearing in Kendal was told.She disappeared from her home in Warrington, Cheshire, four months after a trip to Pakistan in which she was introduced to a suitor. During the trip she allegedly drank bleach and harmed herself in an apparent cry for help.Yesterday details emerged of the teenager running away from home in February 2003, nine months before she died.Anne Marie Woods, a senior homelessness officer with Warrington borough council, said: "She said she had been staying with friends and had nowhere to live. She was fleeing domestic violence and an arranged marriage. She said there had been an escalation of violence since she was 15. One parent would hold her down while the other parent was hitting her."Her mother had started packing and told her she was going to Pakistan for an arranged marriage and that is why she was leaving home." Asked by the coroner, Ian Smith, if the teenager was being a drama queen, she replied: "She came across as rather a shy and quiet girl, as genuinely frightened of this impending arranged marriage."Shafilea had handed Woods a note which read: "Over the past few years I have been experiencing domestic violence which has stopped me coming to college on more than one occasion.""They have also forced me to quit my job - from that I saved up £2,000 which they took out of my bank account. But my fear is that my parents were going to Pakistan to get me married to someone and left there."Shafilea turned down accommodation in a refuge in Liverpool, as she didn't want to disrupt her education in Warrington, and was housed temporarily in a hotel.Her parents, Iftikhar Ahmed, 48, and Farzana, 45, were arrested on suspicion of murder. They vehemently deny any involvement in their daughter's disappearance or death. They listened impassively yesterday as details of their alleged abuse were read to the coroner's court.Shafilea's friend, Melissa Powner, 21, said: "She was friendly and always laughing," adding that she didn't have "much of a life outside of college".In October 2002 Shafilea was found in a park near the college looking cold and shaken after being absent for a week and a half.Powner said: "She was brought to college and said she had escaped from the house early in the morning. She had faded bruises and scratches to the left of her neck. She said she had been locked in the house and hadn't been allowed out." Shafilea stayed at friends' houses for several nights, hoping things would settle down.After Shafilea ran away again in February 2003 Powner described seeing her father grab Shafilea as they walked to school and shove her into his car. "She was crying hysterically. He was quite calm, but firm, and casual about it," said Powner. She ran to tell teachers who contacted the police.When Shafilea came back to school with her father she told her friends she thought everything would be fine and she didn't have to go to Pakistan if she didn't want to and her parents were not going to get her married off. After she returned from Pakistan, Powner asked about the arranged marriage and she said her grandmother had stuck up for her.A worker with the youth advice service Connexions, Kerry Harper, said Shafilea was very bright but not very streetwise."She genuinely loved her family," she said. "She was torn between her family as she had a lot of love for them and cared for them and her religion, but she also wanted something else. When she was going to Pakistan she was persuaded that there was no marriage because her mum was not going."The hearing continues.