Simon Jenkins makes a number of important points regarding the latest prison crisis (Britain's prisons reek of a wretchedly backward nation, June 20). However, he fails to take his argument to its logical conclusion. The debates around the latest crisis mirror those around the major crisis 30 years ago, which led to the deeply flawed May inquiry. Both Labour and Conservative governments failed to deal with the roots of that crisis. That failure led to the Strangeways disturbance in April 1990.Three decades on, if this disastrous road is to be avoided then policy makers and government ministers need to break out of their penal straitjacket, particularly the endless debates about prisons and alternatives to custody. Before thinking about such alternatives, what is needed is a serious debate about the role of the prison itself. Halting the prison-building programme, and redirecting the criminal justice budget away from punitive responses to crime towards more rehabilitative models, would be a much better way forward.Professor Joe SimSchool of social science, Liverpool John Moores UniversityRarely can a new measure have caused such concern as the sentence of imprisonment for public protection introduced by the Criminal Justice Act 2003. Intended for those posing a danger to others, it has already been used on more than 2,750 occasions, but with a median tariff of only 30 months. With custodial places at their "bust limit", many men and women serving these indeterminate sentences are stuck in local jails, unable to access the offending behaviour programmes that would give them the opportunity to demonstrate that they should be considered for release. Couple chronic overcrowding with an increasingly risk-averse culture and we may have created a sentence reminiscent of Kafka's worst nightmares.Geoff DobsonDeputy director, Prison Reform TrustWhy are we not working harder to reduce recidivism and prevent offending? Is it because the best ways of doing so are seen as a "soft option"? Billy Bragg's Jail Guitar Doors scheme supports project work which, through bringing acoustic guitar and percussion tuition into prisons, has reduced recidivism from the national average of 61% to around 10-15% among participants. Other arts schemes for young offenders and adult prisoners have had similar success in enabling prisoners to come to terms with their anger, reduce drug-taking, take education and training options more seriously and confront their negative feelings. It may sound "touchy-feely", but this can be the hardest work that an offender can do while inside.Catherine RoseOlney, BuckinghamshireAs a charity working with foreign nationals in the UK, we welcomed Charlie Falconer's statement and kept waiting to hear that the plight of foreign national prisoners will also be looked at (Report, June 20). But, alas, we did not hear any such thing. A lot of foreign national prisoners are being detained unlawfully after their sentence has been completed in UK prisons. Some are moved from a prison to a detention centre, which is equally overcrowded. Some, after completing their sentence, are incarcerated for a period of six to 18 months, despite the fact that some actually want to go back to their country of origin. Again, we ask, where is the justice in that?Tola Dehinde CEO, Care for Overseas PrisonersPeter Hain's call for more community sentences is to be welcomed. Prison does little to reduce re-offending but instead tears families apart causing further social breakdown. Around 150,000 children are estimated to have parents in jail and the damage to them can be irreparable. When one considers that the majority of women in our prisons are mothers, serving terms of six months or less for non-violent offences, the rationale for separating them from their children seems hollow. If the government is serious about fighting crime and social exclusion it needs to send a clear message that prison should only be used as a last resort.Lucy GampellDirector, Action for Prisoners' Families