Thirty days after Joanna Yeates's body was found on a snowy roadside verge, the man accused of murdering the landscape architect made his first appearance in court today.Vincent Tabak, a Dutch architectural engineer, spoke only to confirm his name, his age, that he understood the proceedings and that he was Yeates's next-door neighbour.The clerk at Bristol magistrates court announced the hearing as "case 27". Asked whether his name was Vincent Tabak, the defendant replied: "It is correct." He gave his address and confirmed his date of birth was 10 February 1978, making him 32.The charge, that he murdered 25-year-old Yeates between 16 December and 26 December last year, was read out and Tabak, who was wearing a red sweater with the sleeves rolled up and dark trousers, was told he could sit down.Tabak craned forward to listen to what was being said during the four-minute hearing through a gap in the dock wall.Watched by around 40 journalists, detectives who have worked on the case and four members of the public, Ann Reddrop, the head of the Crown Prosecution Service's complex casework unit in the south-west, invited the magistrates to send the defendant to crown court for a preliminary hearing on 31 January. She added there was a slot available at Bristol crown court tomorrow if he wanted to apply for bail.The court checked that Tabak, who works for an international design consultancy in Bath, understood what was happening. He made it clear that he did.Tabak's barrister, Paul Cook, asked for the bail hearing slot to be kept open for his client. The court clerk said a plea and case management hearing would be heard on 29 April and case papers had to be served on the defence by 15 March.The chairman of the bench, William Summers, told Tabak to stand, explained what was happening and asked him whether he understood. The defendant replied: "Yes" before being handcuffed and led away. He glanced briefly at the public gallery as he left.Yeates vanished after drinks with friends in Bristol on Friday 17 December and her body was found on Christmas morning at Failand, three miles from the home she shared with her boyfriend, Greg Reardon.Yeates's parents, David and Teresa, did not attend today's hearing. Beforehand they said they might attend a crown court appearance but were now concentrating on arranging their daughter's funeral.Speaking at the family's home in Hampshire, Mr Yeates, an IT worker, said: "We have just been trying to understand what happened from the time Jo left home that day to the time she was found at the side of the road. Hopefully, we will eventually get those answers."In the Netherlands, Tabak's family has hired a spokesman and put out a statement. "Vincent's family is deeply shocked and fully confident that he is not guilty or involved. The family much sympathises with the relatives of the victim," the statement read.Chris Jefferies, the 65-year-old former teacher who was arrested on suspicion of murdering Yeates earlier in the inquiry and then released, remains on bail. Inspector David Horwood, of Avon and Somerset police, said: "We are now considering the impact of the charge [against Tabak] on other aspects of the investigation."