The police service yesterday was sent a wake-up call over its handling of race relations and given a warning that it risked losing the support of a whole section of the population. Few forces had taken significant steps to recruit and retain ethnic minority officers, and some officers from these communities were subjected to racist abuse from colleagues, said a report on police community and race relations Its publication, by the Inspectorate of Constabulary, comes as the service is taking a hard look at itself in the wake of the Stephen Lawrence report. While a few forces, including the Metropolitan police, are singled out in the report for the efforts they have made, most are censured for failing to take steps to address what is now recognised as institutional racism. The aim of the report was to check on progress made by forces on 20 recommendations in the inspectorate's thematic report, Winning the Race, published in October 1997. That report found that only a quarter of the 43 forces in England and Wales had conducted a community and race relations audit; the official definition of a racial incident was still not universally understood; and a minority of officers still used racist language and exhibited racist behaviour with and towards colleagues. 'It stretches credibility to accept that the use of such language or behaviour does not surface in their dealings with the public,' it said. On relations with the ethnic minority communities, the report said: 'The police service is the visible symbol of a society that fails to deliver benefits but is perceived as being quick to deliver injustice.' Five forces the Metropolitan police, South Wales, West Yorkshire, Bedfordshire and Leicestershire were named as having made genuine progress. The report was critical of a simplistic approach, suggesting that the phrase 'canteen culture' was 'as misleading as it is mischievous'. Many committed community officers were part of the same culture. On recruitment, it said: 'No glossy publication will bring those candidates to the door unless they are convinced that the 'service is fair to their communities.' The extent of the problem was demonstrated by the remark of one Surrey officer: 'If you're black and in Surrey you stick out, and if you draw attention to yourself for any reason you increase your chance of being stopped and checked.' The report recommended that appraisals for officers include an assessment of performance in relation to the handling of racial attacks, that forces establish achievable yet challenging targets for recruitment and retention of officers from ethnic minority communities, and that the Police Promotions Examinations Board develop exams to include negative marking for officers showing racist, sexist or homophobic behaviour. HM Inspector Dan Crompton, who led the inspection, said: 'We were disappointed to find that progress has been less than satisfactory, with many of the original recommendations largely ignored and few forces placing the issue high on their agenda.' Chief officers had to recognise that race relations could no longer by usurped by competing demands, he said. 'Unless its importance is recognised and change is tangible there is a risk that the consent of part of the population may be withdrawn. 'Furthermore, the report of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry published last week has made imperative the need for the police to make further progress in community and race relations.' The Association of Chief Police Officers welcomed the report and promised to consider the findings carefully. The association established a task force on racial diversity last July. 'On the recruitment and retention of ethnic minority staff, the Home Secretary has made clear his determination to see the numbers of staff from minority ethnic groups increasing to more representative levels,' said John Newing, ACPO's president and chief constable of Derbyshire. 'We must attract good quality candidates from all sections of society.' Fred Broughton, chairman of the Police Federation, criticised senior officers for slavishly pursuing performance targets while neglecting other forms of policing. He called for better leadership of the service.  Read the full report.