A couple who ran a care home for elderly people in Somerset were arrested and questioned by detectives about the alleged murder of five residents yesterday.Rachel Baker, 45, a registered nurse, and her husband, Leigh, 48, a chef, were also interviewed on suspicion of theft, drug possession and attempting to pervert the course of justice.The decision to detain the couple followed exhumations at several cemeteries. Toxicology tests are believed to have been carried out on the bodies.The couple were initially questioned after the death of Lucy Cox, 97, at Parkfields residential home in Butleigh, Somerset, on New Year's Day.Checks were then made by the Commission for Social Care Inspection (CSCI), which obtained a court order closing the home, near Glastonbury, in March.In a brief statement, Avon and Somerset police confirmed that a 45-year-old woman and a 48-year-old man had attended Yeovil police station. "Both have been arrested on suspicion of the murder of four women and one man, theft and unlawful possession of controlled prescribed drugs and attempting to pervert the course of justice," the statement said."Both arrests relate to ongoing inquiries into deaths at the former Parkfields residential care home in Butleigh."Police were last night granted more time to question the couple and they remained in custody.The exhumations were carried out during the summer. The remains of Nellie Pickford, 89, were removed from Glastonbury cemetery on June 5. Pictures have been released showing her smiling as she cuts a cake at what appears to be a birthday celebration.The body of Marion Alder, 79, a grandmother of four, was exhumed from the graveyard of St Leonard's church, Butleigh, a week later. The remains of Fred Green, 81, were removed from a graveyard in the village of Kingweston, near Somerton, on July 11. The grandfather died on January 6 last year, while he was a resident at Parkfields. Three other residents, whose deaths were being treated as suspicious by officers, have already been cremated.Mrs Baker was first arrested on suspicion of administering a noxious substance on January 5, four days after the death of Cox. Her husband was arrested two days later in connection with the same alleged offence.The home was owned by Mr Baker's parents, June and Malcolm, but it has been managed by Rachel Baker since 1988.The couple live in Glastonbury and have a five-year-old daughter. They were originally bailed until September.The pair were arrested again as they arrived separately yesterday morning to answer bail at Yeovil police station. The CSCI, responsible for regulating and inspecting social care services for adults, said it had alerted police to its concerns. Imelda Richardson, the organisation's regional director for the south-west, said: "Certain matters were brought to our attention in early January that gave us serious concerns about the standards of care provided at Parkfields."We carried out an unannounced inspection at the home on January 24 and found that standards had deteriorated significantly since the previous inspection in June 2006. Following the January inspection, we received a total lack of cooperation and commitment from the home's owners towards improving standards at the home. This could not be allowed to continue, and on March 15 we successfully applied to magistrates for an emergency closure order." Following the closure, the 12 remaining residents of the home were moved by Somerset county council. The former care home, which housed up to 20 elderly residents in bungalows and apartments, was empty yesterday.Maureen Wade, 71, who lives nearby, spoke of her shock at the arrests. She said: "I have spoken to residents who live in the nearby bungalows - there is a widespread feeling of disbelief."Christine Berry, 60, who lives 200 yards from the home, added: "Most people have been surprised and amazed by this whole saga. People I know who have lived in the bungalows and flats at the site have previously had only good things to say about it. It was an expensive home with a very good reputation."The Baker family could not be contacted for comment yesterday.TimelineJanuary 1 2007 Lucy Cox, 97, dies at Parkfields residential home in Butleigh, Somerset, on New Year's DayJanuary 5 Police, investigating seven suspicious deaths at the home, arrest registered nurse Rachel Baker, 45, from Glastonbury, on suspicion of administering a noxious substanceJanuary 7 Mrs Baker's husband, Leigh, 48, is also arrested and questionedJanuary 24 An unannounced inspection by the Commission for Social Care Inspection (CSCI) concludes standards at Parkfields had deteriorated "significantly"March 16 The CSCI obtains a court order to immediately close ParkfieldsJune Detectives announce they are to carry out exhumations for the first time in Avon and Somerset police historyJune 5 The remains of Nellie Pickford, 89, are removed from Glastonbury cemeteryJune 13 Grandmother-of-four Marion Alder, 79, is exhumed from the graveyard of St Leonard's church, ButleighJuly 11 The remains of Fred Green, 81, are dug up from a graveyard in the village of Kingweston, near Somerton, in rural SomersetSeptember Mr and Mrs Baker's bail period is extended by police as investigations continueDecember 10 The couple answer bail at Yeovil police station and are arrested on suspicion of the murder of four women and one man, theft and unlawful possession of controlled prescribed drugs, and attempting to pervert the course of justice. They remain in custody