He was an unhappy, maladjusted child who grew up to be a domestic abuser, an obsessed loner who has a short temper, previous convictions for indecent assault, and a job which allows him considerable freedom to roam the country unobserved. Is this the profile of a potential killer who could be stopped before he strikes?It sounds like something from the realms of science fiction, but Scotland Yard's new Homicide Prevention Unit (HPU) is studying past murders and murderers in an attempt to thwart future crimes. Commander Andy Baker, the Metropolitan police's head of murder investigation, stressed that the HPU would rely on established psychological research, not the mystical mindreaders employed by Tom Cruise's character in the movie Minority Report. But he believes the marriage of traditional detective work with advances in psychoanalysis will provide a fresh perspective on past murders which could stop some future tragedies. "It's about prevention, not prediction," he said. "But we think there is a great deal to be learned from previous murders which could help us save lives." Mr Baker has proposed carrying out new in-depth interviews with British serial murderers and is in discussion with the Home Office about letting British police forces reinterview all convicted killers in the UK. He hopes the unit will identify potentially dangerous individuals still at large, although it is unclear exactly what action can be taken. "It's not our position to say 'lock them up', but we want to identify systems to manage these people," Mr Baker said. Psychological profiling was pioneered by the FBI in the 70s. This is the first time a British police force has set up a specific department to use it and other analytical tools to try to prevent crime. The HPU is not based on any foreign model. Rather, it is the coordinated amalgamation of several working groups in the Met, which were set up in response to various murder investigations. It is headed by Laura Richards, a senior behavioural psychologist, whose team of analysts works with detectives on current inquiries as well as researching trends and interpreting information about high-risk offenders. The analysts will also look at "near misses" - attempted murders and serious assaults which could have resulted in death. Experience has shown that many murderers have a pattern of offending which begins with relatively minor crimes and grows increasingly violent until the offender rapes or murders. Such offenders may also have had disturbed childhoods. Mr Baker said FBI research revealed that many children who grew up to be serial killers had begun by torturing animals. Ms Richards, who has carried out extensive research into domestic violence, said those who abuse partners were much more likely to commit violent crime outside the home - as did the Soham mur derer Ian Huntley and the M25 rapist Antoni Imiela. One in 12 domestic abusers has convictions for sex attacks on strangers. "Violence doesn't occur in a vacuum," Ms Richards said. "Violent acts are often a culmination of long-term development, identifiable trails of problems, conflicts and disputes." Potential offenders may begin carrying weapons, perhaps using "trial runs" of their fantasy crime scenarios to build up confidence before going through with them for real. Location and opportunity can also be important. Ms Richards said analysts had to read the criminal's inner thoughts to try to work out how these could escalate. It was often more about the "quality" of the violence - the significance it held for the perpetrator - rather than the quantity. In common with many domestic abusers, some murderers could be charming and cunning, and extremely adept at manipulating people, including police. "It's about asking the right questions and knowing how to interpret the answers," she said. But human rights campaigners are concerned that the HPU raises difficult ethical issues. Barry Hugill of Liberty said: "Everyone wants to see a reduction in violent crime and anything that can prevent it before it takes place has to be seriously considered. "But this is a frightening road to take without informed debate. New science cannot be taken for granted. What could be done if a person singled out as dangerous had no previous convictions? Pre-emptive detention? It's a similar moral dilemma as for scientists trying to isolate a 'violence' gene. Even supposing they could, would they lock up all those who have it?" The HPU has established working groups for 15 categories of crime in which police will meet a range of agencies and interested parties to devise strategies to deal with dangerous individuals and safeguard potential victims. The categories are: domestic homicide, "honour" killings, mental health cases, murders of sex workers, homophobic murders, ritual murders, contract killings, stranger attacks on lone females, murders of older people, child murders, serial killings, arson, knives, "lone wolves" and dangerousness. The HPU analysts are carrying out "psychological autopsies" of past cases, examining the killer's background, the victim's profile, the modus operandi, the crime location and other relevant factors. In one case they are examining 20 stranger murders of lone females to discover what kind of person carries out this kind of crime and how the victims are targeted. Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford, who is heading the inquiry into the death of the American artist Margaret Muller, stabbed to death in a London park last year, said such murderers sometimes had domination fantasies stretching back to childhood and were often incapable of forming normal adult relationships. He is helping prepare a booklet to advise women how they can best avoid appearing vulnerable to such men. Some killers may fit into several categories, such as Anthony Hardy, the so-called Camden Ripper, jailed for life last year for murdering three sex workers whose dismembered remains were found in bin bags. He had a history of domestic violence, mental illness, alcoholism, an obsession with prostitutes and convictions for minor offences. Detective Chief Superintendent Andy Murphy, who chairs the sex workers' murders and mental illness groups, said many sex workers already used the "Ugly Mug" index, which flagged up potentially dangerous clients, and police were trying to build up trust with sex workers to get more cooperation in murder inquiries.