The nearer the exit door, the louder he shouts. With just four weeks left in office, Tony Blair still knows how to grab the attention. In yesterday's Sunday Times, his analysis of the terrorist threat was uncharacteristically angry. After three suspects on control orders disappeared, criticism of the security services was "absurd". Judges such as Lord Hoffman, who had opposed tougher rules on civil liberties grounds, were "misguided and wrong". In fact, according to the outgoing prime minister, the whole damn country is wrong too.If you think that's an exaggeration, here he is in his own words: "Over the past five or six years, we have decided as a country that, except in the most limited of ways, the threat to our public safety does not justify changing radically the legal basis on which we confront this extremism ... I believe this is a dangerous misjudgment."Careful, Tony. This is coming close to Brecht's famous quip about the East German people letting down the government, and the consequent need to dissolve the people and elect another. But there is no mistaking his genuine anger about the whole civil liberties lobby and its support in the Commons, the Lords (more so) and the media.It has the whiff of an angry private conversation with his friend John Reid, who made a similar point, carried on into the public arena. And his conclusion about kicking out foreigners who we suspect of being extremist was put in the blunt language of the street: "If he then abuses us, and threatens us, I feel he should take his chance back in his own country."It is a curious time to be making this sort of intervention. Changes to the law to allow the police to stop, question and demand the identity of anyone, regardless of a crime being committed or suspected, would require consultation across party lines and a proper national debate before any legislation could be framed, never mind voted on. It isn't really Blair's business any longer. He's turning from premier to heckler of his own administration. If such changes need to be made, it's surely now for Gordon Brown to talk, and decide.This highlights the unhappy, unsatisfactory nature of the long transition. More to the point, though, is whether Blair's basic instinct is right. My guess is that if you took a sample of opinion across the country, far more would agree than disagree. The initial reaction of other politicians, such as Peter Hain, was cautious indeed - Hain pointed out that the cabinet hadn't been told about any of this. But Hain may be in the minority, not Blair.Interestingly, Hain raised the parallel of the "sus" laws which caused such bitter controversy a generation ago. The police were able to stop and question people on suspicion that they might be involved in crime, or planning to commit a crime. Though the stop-and-search law went back to the 1820s, by the 1970s it was being used by the Met to routinely harass young black men. Few white businessmen in suits were ever stopped under sus. Only after the Toxteth and Brixton riots in 1981 was the practice stopped; it remains part of the folklore of urban black life.In fact, after 9/11 the new emergency powers legislation has allowed a partial return to stop-and-search, and in the last year for which figures are available some 36,000 people were stopped by the police. The new powers would go further by giving police the right to demand your identity and movements, on pain of a fine. It's being described as the most draconian proposal since the second world war, and puts a new perspective on the promise that, if compulsory ID cards came in, we wouldn't be obliged to carry them around with us.But again, is it possible that Blair is right and this is needed? The terrorist threat remains very high, and the security service says it is struggling to contain and monitor all the plots it knows about. Isn't the prime minister echoing the commonsense response of voters?The odd thing is that, in the past, Blair himself has given the best answer to this when he has emphasised the huge majority of Muslim people in Britain who are moderate and law-abiding. The war on terrorism cannot be won except from inside Islamic families and mosques. The people on the frontline are not the police or the security services, but ordinary Muslim men and women, the very people whose disaffected children or brothers or sisters are in danger of radicalisation.We have millions of Muslim Britons, living in every sizeable conurbation in the country. There is no going back. The family traffic to and from Pakistan and other countries cannot be stopped unless and until this country decides it is in a state of siege and closes the airports. There is no option available for cutting human links to radical Islam. The only option is to win hearts and minds and to keep doing so, year by year, generation by generation. To that extent, al-Qaida is absolutely right: this is a struggle about values and beliefs, which only one side can win.It has, obviously, to be the liberal western side: but that means taking tough choices in defence of our values, the ones we are defending. At a time when many Muslim people already feel harassed, watched, suspected and unwelcome, nothing could be more dangerous in the war on terror than increasing their sense of isolation. That is how you radicalise people.I'm no more keen to get myself blown up on the tube or at the shops than anyone else, thank you very much, but I believe these new police powers would do more harm than good. The sus laws were used against young black men, not against people like me, or almost any white people. The new version would be used against young men, mostly Asian, sometimes black, who had been monitored attending mosques, or looking a little too closely at Westminster, or airport terminals, or shopping centres.Those fighting terrorism will always want more powers - that's their right, and fair enough. It makes a tough job a little easier, at least until the backlash arrives. That's why I prophesy with some confidence that when compulsory ID cards arrive, we will be told it is essential that failure to carry them becomes an offence.But it is the job of politicians to balance what the security forces might want with the impact of that on the life of the country. It was wrong for the outgoing prime minister to try to bounce Gordon Brown. If enacted, these extra powers will be just as effective as the sus laws were in keeping the streets of Britain quiet back in 1981. jackie.ashley@theguardian.com