Daily Express  Editorial, December 9"Tony Blair has finally listened to the Daily Express and the concerns of our readers. His acknowledgment that householders need more protection from burglars is exactly what this newspaper has long demanded ..."At present, householders are allowed to exert only 'reasonable force'. This left ordinary people in the awful situation that they could end up in the dock if they tried to defend themselves and their family in their own home ... Householders must be able to be confident they have the law on their side. The prime minister appears finally to have recognised that. Now he must support the Tory backbencher Patrick Mercer's private member's bill, to ensure the law protects the innocent, not the guilty."Daily Mail Editorial, December 9"How wonderfully the prospect of an election concentrates the mind. To the astonishment of his own backbenchers and hoots of Tory derision, Mr Blair suddenly discovers there is genuine concern over the plight of law-abiding people confronted by burglars ..."What inspired this spectacular U-turn? The answer is that Tory demands for a new right to fight back are attracting growing support from police and the public. Mr Blair found himself in danger of being outflanked on law and order. So hey presto! He abruptly changed his mind ... Just one question: will this flip-flopping prime minister still be the householders' friend once the election is over?"Daily Telegraph Editorial, December 9"Let us pause for a moment to consider how this question arose ... The bandwagon really started when - to the horror of the BBC's right-on staff - a proposal to allow householders to attack burglars topped a Today programme poll last year. The Conservative MP Roger Gale introduced a bill to this effect, but it went too far, conjuring up a vision of householders battering trespassers with baseball bats. That was blocked by the government; but the bandwagon kept rolling ..."The burden of proof must be shifted, from the accused householder to the prosecution - and now three eminently sensible voices have recognised this (or four, if you count Mr Blair)."Bruce Anderson Spectator, December 9"If we want all victims of burglary to be able to defend themselves, there is only one solution. In most American states, householders are allowed to have guns and use them against menacing intruders. In these states, the burglary rate is much lower than in the UK, because house-breaking is simply too dangerous a profession ... Yet most of us would still prefer the state to have a monopoly of fire-armed force, at least in urban areas. We have not abandoned all hope in the police."That might rapidly change ... It often seems as if the police are either promoting the wrong people or failing to recruit the right ones. There is a failure of leadership ... The current structure of British policing still owes a great deal to Sir Robert Peel. After more than a century and a half, it may be time for a fundamental re-examination, to ensure that we have the right policemen, properly organised and led, with good pay and high morale, to deal with crime."Evening Standard Editorial, London, December 9"Most people cannot be expected to tackle unpredictable criminals. The ability to call 999 and get a response is central to the service the police are supposed to offer. Yet the system is under strain ... Unless the government and the [Metropolitan police] can transform the [999 service in London] quicker, the government's posturing over new laws on resisting burglars will do little to improve the everyday service offered by the police, which is the yardstick by which, in the end, voters will judge all ... promises [to fight crime]."