The detective who led a bungled inquiry into the Harold Shipman case faces demands this week for disciplinary action over claims that his mistakes cost three women their lives.Lawyers working for the victims' families will lodge a complaint with Greater Manchester Police over the actions of Detective Inspector David Smith and his supervising officer, Chief Superintendent David Sykes, which is expected to trigger a disciplinary investigation. Smith began his investigation in March 1998 after GP Linda Reynolds told the local coroner her suspicions that Shipman could be killing his patients. After barely three weeks Smith dropped the inquiry, concluding there was no reason to suspect foul play. Shipman went on to murder at least three more women - Winifred Mellor, Joan Melia and Kathleen Grundy - before being caught in the summer of 1998 when he tried to forge Grundy's will. Last week a public inquiry into the Shipman case confirmed him as the worst serial killer in British history, claiming at least 215 and up to 260 victims. The Mellor family is furious that neither Smith, who is still working for Greater Manchester Police, nor Sykes - a divisional commander now at force headquarters - were disciplined over the failed investigation. 'Somebody has got to be held to account. The police can't just say, "We're sorry" - heads have got to roll,' said Danny Mellor, Winifred's son. Ann Alexander, solicitor for up to 200 of the families, said the public inquiry chaired by Dame Janet Smith had now received enough evidence to enable the families to make their complaint. A lawsuit is likely to follow. 'The thrust of our submission is that, had the police investigation been conducted properly, all three of those people would still be alive,' she said. The inquiry heard that Smith was regarded as a good, honest and experienced officer. Police witnesses suggested the idea of a doctor deliberately killing patients seemed so unlikely it was almost impossible to grasp. Alexander - who worked on the case of Beverly Allitt, the children's nurse convicted of murdering patients - says that is no excuse: 'After Allitt was convicted there was a flurry of other incidents involving nurses around the country. It has been known for some time that health professionals can kill.' The inquiry has heard that Smith did not take notes of his conversation with Reynolds, nor check the police national computer which would have told him Shipman had a record of abusing prescription drugs. Smith failed to identify and then interview potential witnesses properly, the inquiry has heard, and admitted that he had not fully understood the medical evidence. His version of events has also changed repeatedly. The lawyer acting for him, Bruce Stuart, admitted to the inquiry last week that the 'quality and manner' of Smith's evidence to the hearing had been 'inappropriate'. But Caroline Swift, counsel to the inquiry, said Smith should not shoulder all the blame, as he did not receive enough guidance from Sykes, who had little experience of criminal investigations. Greater Manchester Police yesterday declined to comment, beyond stressing that it had made a public apology for the conduct of the investigation. The inquiry is expected to reject speculation about a 'mole' who leaked the news to Shipman that he was under investigation. The inquiry has heard that Alan Massey - father of the undertaker Deborah Bambroffe, who also voiced concern at the number of Shipman's patients dying - may have tipped him off out of a genuine belief that the allegations were unfounded. Shipman's murders tailed off sharply during the police investigation - but within a month of Smith closing the inquiry, Winifred Mellor lay dying in her front room.