Broad Street in Birmingham is a strip seemingly devoted to getting people as drunk as possible, and luckily there is a makeshift casualty department at one end for those pushed over the edge. Wrapped around the railings outside one bar are posters advertising offers on "designer drinks", and bottles of beer for £1.95. In another bar, a poster advertises "mates rates" on WKD, the young female binge drinker's tipple of choice - two bottles for £4. It's Saturday night, 8pm, I'm sober and I'm wearing more clothes than most of the other women put together: I'm horribly out of place. The West Midlands has seen the biggest increase in the number of women being arrested for being drunk and disorderly in the past five years. Last week, a survey of the country's police forces conducted by Channel 4 found that 5,891 women were detained in a 12-month period during the past year compared with 3,847 in 2003/04. In the West Midlands, 731 women were arrested, more than 12 times the number in 2003/04. Are women really becoming more drunk and violent or is there something else happening here? It is well documented that female offenders are given disproportionately harsher sentences than males. More than a third of female prisoners have no previous convictions - more than double the figure for men - and fewer than a third are convicted for violent offences. The majority of women in prison are convicted of petty offences, such as shoplifting, and pose no danger to the public, yet they are given prison sentences rather than community orders."The increases in the number of women being arrested for being drunk and disorderly must be considered within the overall context, which has emerged in recent years, of harsher sentences being given to women for committing petty offences," says Sarah Campbell, spokeswoman for the Fawcett Society, which campaigns on women's equality issues. "Despite the fact that a much smaller proportion of women offenders commit violent and serious offences, once at the police station, women are more likely than men to be cautioned and less likely to have their case discontinued. [Being arrested for drunk and disorderly behaviour] may indicate that when women step outside the boundaries of social acceptability, their behaviour is judged more harshly."Last year, a worrying example of police treatment of a woman, who had been drinking and was later convicted of criminal damage, came to light after it was caught on CCTV. Toni Comer, a 19-year-old, had been thrown out of a nightclub in Sheffield for being aggressive, and then damaged a vehicle in a car park. The police were called and several officers held her down, while one repeatedly hit her. She was then hauled, limp, to a waiting police van, her trousers round her ankles. She made a complaint against the police but an official inquiry found that the officers' use of force had been justified. When I wrote about the case last year, several police officers said that dealing with a drunk woman was far worse than dealing with a drunk man. "You use reasonable force to restrain someone," said one, "whether you're dealing with a man or a woman. And I've seen women who can fight back better than most men."On Broad Street, which has a very visible police presence (although I can see only a few female police officers), they seem to agree. "The women are far worse in fights," says a constable who asks not to be named. "They're more feisty. If you try and break it up, they'll try and fight back." Even if they're small and you get two or more male police officers restraining them? "Yes, they'll give it all they've got." It is not yet 9pm and there are two young women sitting on a kerb, shouting to passers-by, asking for a light. The contents of one of their handbags - including a small bottle of cheap vodka - spill out on to the pavement. They say they are 18, but neither have ID and they have been refused entry to lots of bars on the street; I think they look younger. I ask them if they have ever had any contact with the police."Yeah," says one of them, who introduces herself as Amie, with a smile that suggests she is as proud as she is embarrassed. "I started a fight with this girl in there once." She points to a branch of Walkabout, the Australian-themed chain bar. "She gave me a dirty look so I went for her. The police came and about four policemen grabbed me. One pulled my hands behind my back and they took me outside and slammed me against the police car. I was kicking and screaming and one of them was shouting, 'Calm down, you little slag.' I kicked one of them and they were like, 'Right, that's it, we're arresting you.' I spent the night in the cell." Does she think the police treat the women here more harshly than the men? "I don't know. They were harsh with me," she says."They do pick on you if they think you're underage," says her friend. "I don't think they question as many boys for being underage. And they really look down their noses at us." Other women I speak to say they have had no problems with the police in this area.It is worth remembering that women are far more likely to be the victims of violence than the aggressors. And while the statistics show a rise in the number of women being arrested for drunk and disorderly offences, this doesn't necessarily follow that women are becoming more drunk and disorderly."There are more women out at night," says Kate O'Brien, a lecturer in sociology at the University of Kent, who has studied young women and violence. "So there will be an increase in the number of women being picked up by the police. Women are delaying motherhood and marriage, and they are staying in education for longer, which means they are also spending longer in the night-time leisure market - and the whole night-time economy has changed, especially in the way women are targeted, such as drinks promotions, and the way bars are decorated to appeal to women."O'Brien also believes the police response has changed in the past few years. "The days when the police viewed young drunk women as in need of protection are long gone. The perception of women in terms of the whole criminal justice system has changed." Susan Batchelor, a lecturer in criminology at the University of Glasgow, says we are witnessing changes in the behaviour of young women but this has happened in parallel with changes in licensing laws and the marketing of alcohol. "I'm always concerned that young women are identified as the problem, when the role of the alcohol industry and changing social attitudes are also responsible. There has been moral panic about young women. They are still seen as the guardians of our moral standing, the future mothers of our children, so young women's behaviour is regulated much more than young men's, and when they act like men always have done, it is seen as a huge problem." I have never bought the idea, a favourite topic of the Daily Mail among others, that female binge drinkers are responsible for everything from the rise in sexually transmitted diseases to sexual assault, and now drunk and disorderly behaviour. Having indulged in the odd bit of binge-drinking myself, all those scare stories pretending to care that young women are destroying their lives and livers always seemed, to me, to be a smoke-screen for the true horror: that young women were having fun.But clearly, there is a growing problem. Women between the ages of 35 and 44 are seven times more likely to die from chronic liver disease than they were 30 years ago and women are more susceptible to a range of alcohol-induced problems, including brain damage, than men. No amount of equality campaigning will change biology. A study published last year showed that 76% of women surveyed at a clinic for sexually transmitted infections in southern England had had unprotected sex as a result of drinking. Drinking also puts women at a greater risk of sexual assault - on this one street in Birmingham, there have been instances of predatory and dangerous men driving slowly along it or stopping, and women getting into the back, thinking it's a taxi. The increasing numbers of women who binge drink is something that bothers feminists, particularly those of an older generation. "Gender equality wouldn't be worth fighting for if all it meant was the opportunity to be as stupid and self-destructive as men can be," wrote the US feminist Barbara Ehrenreich about bingeing. Writing in the Guardian in 2004, the feminist academic Angela McRobbie said: "The hard-drinking culture, along with the requirement to be 'up for it', even if this means casual sex in car parks, marks the corrosion of feminist values."I can see her point - much earlier in the night, long before anyone should really be that drunk, I walked past a young woman who was vomiting between a couple of parked cars; a picture of emancipation it was not. But, ultimately, I still think women can do what they want and the idea that women should be more shamed for their behaviour than men is offensive and outdated.In Risa, one of the larger bars on Broad Street, with a dancefloor that smells of vomit, I talk to a group of women who look at me as if I am crazy when I ask them if they consider themselves feminists for putting as much alcohol away as men. They think about it for a minute. "You know what, yes," says Kayleigh, 23, who is unemployed. "It makes me laugh when there's so much [in the media] about girls who drink, as if men haven't been doing it - and doing it worse - for years."Outside the O Bar, I ask another woman, who is swaying and trying to smoke, the same. "What do you mean by 'feminist'?" she says. OK, so it was a stupid question and now is probably not the best time to get into a discussion of feminist ideology with a slurring Brummie who, when I turn around, is trying to dance with her reflection in the window.At one end of Broad Street, the West Midlands ambulance service has set up a "field hospital" in a council building to deal with the inevitable alcohol-related injuries to ease the burden on the city hospitals' accident and emergency departments. Tonight, the team - one doctor, two nurses, paramedics and St John Ambulance volunteers - will work until around 5am. In one of the meeting rooms, they have set up a makeshift ward, with plastic sheeting taped over the carpet and camp beds set up in rows."The women we see are probably worse than men," says Tracey Morrell, the clinical manager. "They tend to be more aggressive." She says some will try and fight the staff who are helping them, especially those who have been sleeping off intoxication. Last night, one woman bit one of the ambulance crew. The female patients, like the men, are often brought in after they've been fighting, or because they've collapsed after drinking too much. "I would say the women are on a par with men now," says Morrell. "We see about half and half. Although the women tend to be in the younger age range - from 18 to 25." She doesn't know why the women tend to be more aggressive than the men. There is a woman, probably in her late teens, lying on a camp bed, sleeping off a heavy night of drinking; she had collapsed outside a club and was brought in by paramedics. Her friend, who came in with her, keeps trying to wake her. "Get up, you tramp," she says affectionately, and shakes her.By 3am, they had seen around 16 patients - not too bad considering there must be thousands of drunk people out tonight. Yet for all the hysterical headlines - "Rise of the girl drunks" was the Daily Mail's on Friday, "Out on the town ... out of her head" was the Sun's on Monday - the vast majority of the women drinkers here aren't vomiting in the gutter or starting fights. After one of the clubs spews its customers out on the street at closing time, I see a girl talking and laughing with a couple of police officers - one even gives her his helmet to wear. I catch up with the police officer I spoke to earlier in the night. "We arrested a man for a drunken assault, but as far as I know, no women," he says. He looks relieved.