The much-publicised death of Frank McGarahan has been a reminder to us all of the risks of intervening to prevent a crime. Stay out of it, seems to be the lesson these stories teach, and yet it feels wrong to walk away. So what is the right thing to do?The illusionist Derren Brown has his own technique for dealing with aggressors. When a drunken man approached him on the street one night shouting, "What you looking at?", plainly hoping to concoct a punchup from the answer, he replied, "The wall outside my house isn't 4ft high." The idea was to confuse the man so much that all his aggression disappeared. In fact, Brown's would-be assailant simply burst into tears.When someone else is being attacked, however, other strategies are called for. "First, find help," advises Bill Fox, a former police officer and now chairman of Maybo, a conflict management consultancy. "That could be by contacting the police, or by getting help from others nearby."Next, think about your options. "Is it safe to intervene?" says Fox. "And if you do decide to intervene, it's safest to do so from a distance, using verbal communication." This could involve shouting something like, "Stop!", "Police are coming!" or "You're on camera!" - and you might have to shout quite loudly to get the attacker's attention. "That may be enough," Fox says. If it isn't, and you think it would be dangerous to wade in, then don't. "Be a good witness," says Fox. "Sometimes people can be put off by witnesses, so there is something positive that everybody can do." If you do manage to get the attacker's attention, keep an "open hands" body language. "Imagine your hands are up," says Fox, "as if you're appealing to somebody, showing open palms." Saying "I can see you're angry" or "I know you're upset" may also be a good idea because it acknowledges the attacker's emotion.Finally, if you feel cowardly for not doing more, remember that even the police are told to get physically involved only as a last resort. "But they've been trained to do that," says Fox as a reminder, "and they have incapacitant sprays and batons."