When the immigration officers arrived off Sumburgh Head, sweeping low through the cloud-diffused light to land under the black cliffs, Shetland would have appeared as it does to all visitors: dark, weathered and foreign. The officers had flown in to pick up a criminal, one of more than a thousand foreign nationals released from Britain's jails without being considered for deportation. They had been sent on the orders of a home secretary determined to make amends.The man they were looking for, Sakchai Makao, lived at 51 Haldane Burgess Crescent, a terrace of stunted, pebbledashed houses on the wrong side of Shetland's capital, Lerwick. The 23-year-old is an arsonist, convicted in 2004 of the Scottish offence of "wilful fire-raising", for which he served eight months of a 15-month sentence.So, a little after 8am on Thursday June 6, the officers arrived at Makao's home. His flatmate, Jamie Henderson, had left for work. This being Shetland, the door was not locked and the officers let themselves in. They arrested Makao and flew him to the mainland. He is now in Durham jail, threatened with deportation to Thailand, a country he has not seen for more than a decade.Last Tuesday, 800 Shetlanders converged on the Clickimin leisure centre, where Makao used to work. "It's quite emotional standing here and looking at the wave of faces looking back at me," said Sandra Jamieson, one of the speakers. "The small ones at the front must be from Sakchai's swimming class." The children, members of Makao's lifesavers class, shouted back that this was true.The Shetlanders were outraged that a valued member of their community had been dragged off by people they didn't know. For they do not consider Makao a foreign criminal. They think of him as a Shetlander and a friend. For the youngest, he has been a lifeguard almost as long as they have been alive.Sakchai Makao was born in a small village in north-east Thailand. Fourteen years ago, his mother, Kesorn, met a Glaswegian stevedore and married him, bringing her two youngest children, Sakchai and Uthai, to Scotland."My children were too young to leave," Kesorn said last week. "My mum was too old and too poor to look after them. I needed to bring Sakchai and Uthai. This made me happy." The stevedore also appears to have made her and the children happy. Moving to the tough Drumchapel neighbourhood of Glasgow, they found themselves welcomed - by teachers, by children, and, most of all, by their new family. "We were so young and it was so exciting," said Uthai. "It was lovely to be part of something so easy and welcoming."With her husband (who has since died) close to retirement, Kesorn decided to seek work. A friend from Thailand had moved to Shetland and she travelled north to visit. "She said it was very nice and peaceful," Uthai said. The family moved.The Shetlanders are startlingly white, the colour of cooked halibut, yet there is a ranginess to them. On the trade routes between Norway, Iceland, Greenland and the Americas, incomers - "soothmoothers" - have been arriving for centuries and are almost always welcomed. The accent is hard, the consonants falling like rocks on a steep slope. It is an accent Uthai has: "Sakchai was always a cheery bugger," she says.The change in fortune that oil brought to Shetland has touched everyone, Makao included. Oil founded the Shetland Recreational Trust, which built the Clickimin Centre. In a town of weather-bitten granite, pebbledash and Nor- wegian pine, Clickimin vibrates with health and colour. It has squash courts, gyms, cafes, an athletics field and a 25m swimming pool. This is where Makao worked from the age of 16.James Johnston, the general manager, looked exhausted when I caught up with him. He had just returned from visiting Makao in Durham. "He was remarkably upbeat given the circumstances," Johnston said. "Although obviously frightened."Makao was working as a lifeguard at the pool when he committed his crime. He had just moved out of the house he shared with his sister to live with his girlfriend, but the relationship was turning sour. Henderson was turning 19, and Makao went out with a group of their friends to celebrate. Makao ended up with another man, Uthai's then boyfriend, heading towards an area of Lerwick called the North Ness. They found a car beside the road with a For Sale sign in the window, a broken windscreen, and unlocked doors.The friend, who had been in trouble before, got inside and looked for something worth stealing. When nothing was found, Makao set the car on fire. They discovered a Portakabin further on, a temporary office of a fishing contractor. Uthai's boyfriend broke in. Again, Makao set it on fire. It didn't take long for the police to track them down.Makao pleaded guilty to the fire-raising, while the friend admitted only the failed burglaries. The prosecutor told the court that Makao's case was a "one-off". The sheriff considered the danger to the fire brigade, and decided on a 15-month sentence. Uthai's boyfriend received a fine and community service.The sentence came as a shock to Kesorn because Makao hadn't told her he was in trouble. "I knew nothing," she said. Uthai explained: "He was hoping he would get community service and she would never know."It also shocked Makao's bosses. "It was totally out of character," said Johnston. The Trust conferred and then made it clear to Makao that his job would be awaiting his return. He behaved impeccably in Aberdeen jail."Deportation was never mentioned in the lead-up to the trial, during the trial, or during the sentence," said David Gardner, father of two of Makao's close friends. "Had deportation been mentioned at the time, I would have fought it, but I wouldn't have expected the level of support from the Shetland community we have now. He has redeemed himself."It's unlikely that Makao thought of deportation either, not having been to Thailand since he was 10. Until last week, he had indefinite leave to remain, as has his sister, while Kesorn, having married a Scot, has residency. So Shetland was where he went when he was released from Aberdeen jail. He passed all the government tests for those who work with children, and the community again entrusted their children into his care.While Makao may not have been thinking about deportation, others were. Charles Clarke was presiding over a fiasco where foreign-born criminals were being released without being considered for deportation. Clarke's position soon seemed tenable only to himself and he was sacked. John Reid took over, and set out to track down and "send home" the criminals.The Home Office refuses to comment on individual cases, but points out that "foreign nationals must obey the laws of this country like anyone else. Anyone breaking the law can expect prosecution and, where appropriate, a custodial sentence and deportation."The Shetland MP, Alistair Carmichael, is in no doubt about what has happened. "This was an easy hit for the Home Office," he said. "In order to cover their own embarrassment they are playing a numbers game."On Shetland, where secrets are all but impossible to keep, there's no alternative theory as to why immigration officers turned up at Makao's home. No one appears to have been asked whether Makao was a danger needing to be expunged from the community. This may have been an error, because small communities are sensitive organisms. Injure one part and the whole begins to scream.The injury was felt first by Shona Nisbett, Makao's immediate boss. Makao called her from the airport to apologise for not being able to get to work. "He said, 'I have been taken away and I'm going to be deported,' " she recalls. "I asked why. 'I don't know,' he said. I asked where he was being taken. 'I don't know,' he said."A lawyer was found, but by then Makao was on a flight to Glasgow. Expressing "shock", the trustees of the Shetland Recreational Trust decided to underwrite any emergency legal action, even though they no longer knew where he was. The Church of Scotland was equally outraged. Petitions appeared. Within five days, a third of Shetland's 22,000 inhabitants had signed. The other two-thirds, according to one local, "just haven't come into town yet".Gardner has established a fighting fund. An appeal has been lodged against the order of deportation. Bail is being sought. On Tuesday night, with hundreds of the crowd in tears, Gardner sent round buckets and the crowd produced more than £2,300. No one knows how to explain Makao's disappearance to the children."One drunken mistake," the Shetlanders keep saying, as they begin to wonder whether there are others like Makao suffering a similar fate.