A predatory paedophile who snatched a six-year-old girl from her bath and dumped her naked in a freezing street was given life yesterday for kidnap, rape and sexual assault.Peter Voisey, who was under multi-agency supervision as a convicted child molester at the time of the attack last Christmas, will not be considered for parole for 10 years.He was told by Judge David Hodson, passing sentence at Newcastle crown court: "I am in no doubt whatsoever that you are a dangerous predatory male. It may be that you are never released, but that is a matter for others."Voisey, who was unanimously convicted by a jury last month, shouted across the court at Jim Napier, the detective chief inspector who led the inquiry, "Napier, you know I'm innocent", before being led away.His conviction for the chilling crime followed the admission of "bad character" evidence under legal reforms in the 2003 Criminal Justice Act. Jurors were allowed to hear details of a similar attack by him at a Cheshire swimming pool in 2001 and of the sexual taunts he left during a burglary.The trial was also told that the unemployed 37-year-old, who was on the sex offenders' register after serving two years in jail for the Cheshire assault, had told a friend in 2004 that he fantasised about snatching a child off the street for sexual abuse. The attack at Willington Quay, North Tyneside, came close to that, with Voisey creeping into his victim's house, clamping a gloved hand over her mouth and dragging her out of her bath.Voisey drove around neighbouring streets for 20 minutes after the snatch, stopping twice to rape and assault the child before dumping her naked in a back alley in sub-zero temperatures.Judge Hodson told him: "Anyone might think that the child was as safe as she could be in her own bath in her own house. No one would dream that she was in imminent peril of being kidnapped. What must have been going on in that little girl's mind as you attacked her is almost impossible to imagine. She must have been absolutely terrified, she must have feared for her life. It is impossible to determine what possible long-term effects she may be yet to endure. Clearly she has a long road ahead of her."The court heard that she was an engaging and happy child before the attack and was told before the sentencing that she had recently suffered worsening anxiety attacks and had been referred by doctors for extra, specialised counselling.After the hearing her mother said: "My little girl was in the bath in her own home within earshot of everyone else in the flat. The back door was shut and I'd only just left the bathroom with her younger brother to go to another room when she was snatched."Voisey showed no remorse and maintained his innocence throughout the trial, telling the jury he felt "utterly ashamed, sorry and disgusted" about the previous attack in Cheshire. He said that in jail he was haunted by his offence and had taken the advice of a prison officer that the best recompense to his victim would be never to commit a similar offence again.The court heard that at the age of six Voisey had been removed from his home in North Tyneside by social services. He was educated at a special boarding school until 14, and then placed in a children's home. Two years later he returned to live with his mother but she died a year later. He later married, and was divorced after three years.The multi-agency monitoring of Voisey is now subject to a review but Mr Napier said: "Our initial inquiries suggest there was nothing in the way he was being managed which could have prevented him committing this offence."The victim's family were in court today and they tell me they are delighted at the length of this sentence. [The] family should be proud of the way both she and themselves have conducted themselves throughout this inquiry."