The Home Office is falling behind in its effort to cut crime, according to figures released yesterday, the latest in a week of gloomy statistics which have renewed questions about the overall direction of government policy.The department's autumn performance report reveals "slippage" in its efforts to reduce crime by 15% in the five-year period to April 2008. The British crime survey shows offending rates had fallen by 10.74% in the year to June 2006, compared to a fall of 12% on the previous statistics. "We are behind trajectory but still have until March 2008 to meet the target," a Home Office spokesman said.On Thursday two sets of official figures were released showing about half of all those delivered with antisocial behaviour orders were failing to comply with the conditions.Paul Cavadino, chief executive of Nacro, the crime reduction charity, said yesterday: "We have seen an excess of tough political rhetoric which has increasingly overcrowded prisons, and made it harder to rehabilitate prisoners. This has hampered progress in cutting reoffending. The position has also been worsened because the 'respect' agenda is accelerating young people into custody at a time when prison numbers have reached crisis point. Trying to appear tough on crime is getting in the way of effective measures to reduce crime."Yesterday's publication on Home Office targets showed reoffending by young criminals was down 1.4%, short of its 5% target and that the government was missing its target for reducing class A drug use among young people, albeit marginally.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "This amounts to a serial failure. The government has totally failed to tackle the scourge of drugs in our society, which has undermined the fight against rising crime." John Reid, the home secretary "talks tough, but fails to deliver", Mr Davis said. "The chronic overcrowding in our prisons means there are not enough places for criminals to serve the sentence they deserve and disrupts any serious attempt to rehabilitate offenders in prison."The Home Office has endured a torrid time in the spotlight since the Immigration and Nationality Directorate's failure to consider deportation of foreign prisoners at the end of their sentences was exposed in the spring. It pointed to several successes in yesterday's report, which compares performance against the public service agreement targets set by the chancellor in the 2004 spending review. Figures show the department is well ahead on the number of offences brought to justice, some 847,000 higher than its target for 2007-8, according to provisional figures.It was "on course" on reducing the re-conviction rates of adults and in its efforts to reduce fear of crime and increase confidence in the police, and ahead on reducing unfounded asylum claims, improving public perceptions of the criminal justice system and the numbers of offences brought to justice. It was also ahead on efficiency savings.Tony Blair has made the respect agenda a personal crusade since the last election. But while the use of antisocial behaviour orders has risen sharply in recent years, figures published this week show more than 40% are breached, and a study by the National Audit Office showed a hard core of one in five young offenders breached the orders more than five times each.Mr Reid was robust about the latest disappointing figures, insisting: "We set targets that are both challenging and achievable, and which incentivise improvements in public services. While we are making significant headway in some of these areas, there are still areas where we need to do more."