More than 300 people convicted of sex crimes now officially regarded as out of date and discriminatory are to be removed from the sex offenders register, it was announced yesterday.The move will follow the repeal of the Victorian crimes of buggery and indecency between men when the sex offences bill going through parliament reaches the statute book next May. This is the first time a group of convicted offenders will be removed from the register since it was set up five years ago. Registered sex offenders have to notify the police of their names, addresses and national insurance numbers, and give notice when they travel away from home. Not all those convicted of buggery or indecency will be taken off the register - only those whose cases involved consensual sex with people over 16, as non-consensual sex and sexual activity with children is to remain illegal. But the Home Office admitted yesterday that the register does not contain enough detail to determine who should be removed. Because of this, police are to invite registered offenders to apply to have the restrictions lifted. The official information systems are so poor they will be asked to supply details of their convictions so case files can be found. Those whose applications are refused will have the right to appeal to the high court. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "It is clearly wrong that people should remain on the register for consensual activity where there is no danger to the public. This undermines confidence in the sex offenders register." The move comes as gay rights campaigners complain that the controversial "sex in public toilets" law has quietly been replaced by a tough new anti-cottaging measure. The original proposal would have decriminalised "cottaging" unless a person was "reckless" by having sex in circumstances in which they were likely to be seen. The gay rights activist Peter Tatchell said the new proposal created a specific offence of "sexual activity in a public toilet", outlawing not only sex but also sexual touching of other parts of the body. "This reintroduces legislative homophobia by the back door. It criminalises sex in public toilets but not sex in other public places. Why is the government targeting gay behaviour?" he asked.