A man whose partner is accused of murdering their two children in a Spanish hotel allegedly used hypnotism and violence to groom and sexually abuse a young girl from the age of seven, a court heard today.Martin Smith, 45, abused his alleged victim for nine years, Manchester crown court heard. He would attempt to hypnotise, hit and bully the girl to ensure she complied, it is claimed.Smith's daughter, Rebecca, five, and son Daniel, 11 months, were found dead in Lloret de Mar in the hotel Miramar on 18 May. Spanish police arrested their mother, Lianne Smith, 43, on suspicion of murder.Today her partner went on trial, facing 11 specimen charges of rape, attempted rape, indecency with a child and indecent assault, between May 1995 to May 2004. Smith, originally from North Shields, denies all the charges.Before the trial began, the judge, Mr Justice Stephen Irwin, told the jury it was a case in which some of the background had attracted national publicity.He said the defendant's partner was in Spain awaiting trial over the death of her two children. "In December 2007 Lianne Smith and this defendant left the UK for Spain with their young daughter Rebecca and another child, Daniel, was born when in Spain."The judge said Martin Smith was extradited from Spain in the spring and after his return, the children were found dead in a hotel room in the country. "At the time of the deaths this defendant was in custody in England awaiting trial and was not linked, and is not linked to the deaths in Spain at all." Irwin added that Martin Smith was not charged or implicated in their deaths.Prosecuting, Hilary Manley told the jury: "This case concerns, what the prosecution say, was systematic and prolonged sexual abuse by this defendant over a period of about a decade."The abuse began with forcing the girl to touch Smith intimately and Smith touching her, it is alleged. On occasion he would turn violent, act in a "domineering and bullying manner" and use hypnotism, but she pretended to be under his influence.From 13 she complied with his wishes with resignation, when he allegedly raped her. But three years ago, she felt "sufficiently strong" to report the abuse to police and Smith was arrested in November of that year. He "emphatically denied" all the allegations and was bailed, and left the country.After he was extradited, his partner is then alleged to have murdered the couple's children. "We are not asking you to infer anything from the fact that the defendant left this country for Spain," the prosecutor added.The trial was adjourned until tomorrow, when the alleged victim, now in her 20s, will give evidence.