Almost exactly a year ago, Stephen Downing left prison in Cambridgeshire on bail after spending 27 years in jail for a crime he had always insisted he did not commit.Prisoner 797501 served his time in Risley, Dartmoor, Wakefield and Littlehey. If he had admitted his guilt, he could have been released on parole and gone home to the Peak District 10 years earlier. But Mr Downing would never say he was the killer of Wendy Sewell, whom he found battered but still alive in a graveyard in Bakewell, Derbyshire, in 1973. Despite his long incarceration, he grinned broadly as he was freed last February. He shook hands with a prison officer, thanked people for their support, and headed north with his possessions stuffed into six bin liners. There were welcoming balloons and banners in the garden of his parents' Bakewell house and reporters waited on the road. But Mr Downing and his parents spent their first night together in almost 30 years in a hotel, courtesy of one of the newspapers. Yet soon Mr Downing was in the limelight, beginning a series of press conferences. During a year of freedom he also passed his driving test, held down a job as a sous chef in a local restaurant, and started to get to grips with the world that had passed him by. Mr Downing was 17 when, at Nottingham crown court, he was convicted of murder. He then had a reading age of 11 and had worked as a groundsman in the cemetery where he found the dying Ms Sewell. The crown based its case on a confession extracted by detectives after a seven hour interrogation during which he had to be shaken awake. Officers took bets on whether he would confess. Mr Downing was never told he was under arrest or in custody, nor was he advised that he had the right to see a solicitor. Mr Downing's sentence made him the victim of Britain's longest running miscarriage of justice. In jail, he consistently claimed his innocence. The Home Office classified him as an IDOM, a prisoner in denial of murder. "They told me I could go to a nice warm prison if only I would admit to murder, that I should stop causing trouble for them and for myself," he said a couple of days after his release. "They denied me my right to have a parole hearing because they said I was in denial. During my whole 27 years in prison, the staff would try to persuade me to confess. It seems as if they were having some sort of competition to see who could be the one that finally made me admit it. "It was always pressure, pressure, pressure. But I was optimistic that we would win in the end. It was hard work, but I believed in my cause. I believed in myself. I wanted to clear my name." He said he had nothing but contempt for whoever killed Ms Sewell and robbed him of the best years of his life. Mr Downing appealed to Derbyshire police to reopen the investigation. In large part, he owes his freedom to Don Hale, former editor of the Matlock Mercury, who investigated his case over several years, and defied intimidation over it. Last year Mr Hale was honoured at the British press awards. After writing dozens of letters Mr Downing first found work in a pub. Then he moved on to the restaurant where he makes pastry and prepares vegetables. He now owns a car, an ageing Fiat, and lives with his parents Juanita and Ray, and sister Christine. His newly acquired freedom has not always been easy. He told the Mail on Sunday that he could not settle to regular mealtimes because after so many years in jail he was unwilling to be confined by routine. "I am 45 years old," he said. "I need my privacy, my own space. I have got alarm clocks that wake me up to go to work. I don't need my family tapping on my bedroom door, telling me to get up. I love my family dearly, but I can't cope with them 24 hours a day, seven days a week." His mother, Juanita, 67, said: "It's been very difficult for all of us... we have got our own ways and so has he. We went to see him in prison every fortnight for nearly 30 years, but we never lived together as a family. We never really knew what his life was like... we have learned to accept him." Mr Downing now waits to hear what compensation he can expect for 27 years spent behind bars: some estimates have suggested he could be awarded up to £8m.