A man was knocked down and killed trying to prevent thieves stealing a Land Rover from his farm, Warwickshire police revealed yesterday.The death of 61-year-old Michael Boffey near Rugby has shocked the rural community where he worked all his life. Detectives are treating it as a murder inquiry.Officers are investigating whether Mr Boffey, a pig farmer, rushed to block a gateway on Saturday morning because he believed his Border terrier, Jack, was in the vehicle.His family yesterday appealed for witnesses to come forward and paid tribute to him.His eldest son, William, 40, told a press conference in Rugby that their grief was "beyond words"."Farming to him was a dream come true. He loved it, it was his life," he said."Every day was as exciting as the last for him. Now someone has intruded into his life and our lives and robbed us of the man we loved dearly."Mr Boffey - a father of three, who has five grandchildren - had left the keys in the ignition of the green Land Rover Defender while he was in offices at Grange Farm at Withybrook, close to the town.He was talking with a colleague when they heard the engine being started and ran outside to see the vehicle being driven off.He was trying to close an exit from the farmyard when he was struck by the Land Rover and received severe head injuries.He died at the scene in Featherbed Lane, Withybrook, at around 11.20am. Detective Chief Inspector Sarah Goodall said yesterday: "In the course of this vehicle being stolen, its owner has tried to intervene and was struck by it. The vehicle has not stopped after the collision and left Featherbed Lane."Mick Boffey was a hard-working decent man who has been taken from a loving family. It's left a devastated family and a devastated community."She added: "I would like to make an appeal to the driver who is responsible for this - please do not make this terrible thing, this tragedy that's happened, any worse."Decency and courage are what's called for now."Mr Boffey used to take his dog to work with him. "Jack was always there, wherever he went, in a tractor, combine, wherever," his son William said."We just hope these people are caught. If anyone out there knows anything we implore them to help close this chapter in our lives."The Border terrier was later found in another car in the farmyard. Detectives suspect the thieves may have pushed the animal out of the Land Rover.A team of more than 20 officers is working on the inquiry into the death of Mr Boffey, who lived in Burton Hastings, near Nuneaton.Neighbours described Mr Boffey as respected and well-loved. One said: "He was a lovely guy, used to get up early and work late. No one had a bad word to say about him."He and his wife Bernice have been here since the 1940s, everyone around here knew him."The vehicle was later found abandoned in the car park of St John the Baptist Church in Wolvey, three miles from the farm, about 30 minutes after the incident.A silver saloon car, in which the two suspects arrived at the farm, has not yet been traced. Officers are asking all those who drove silver coloured cars in the vicinity of the attack on Saturday to contact them.The man who drove away the Land Rover is described by police as a white man, aged between 25 and 29, of stocky build, and with short, unkempt hair. He was wearing a pink or red t-shirt, which may have had writing on it, and a sleeveless jacket.The second man, who was seen in the silver saloon car, is also described as white, aged between 25 and 29, with short, dark, unkempt hair.He had a darker complexion than the other man and is thought to have been slightly shorter. He was wearing a black T-shirt.