A dozen years ago, a 12-year-old girl called Polly Klaas was kidnapped and murdered in California by a violent criminal who had already committed other serious offences. The understandable outcry led to the introduction in that state of the "three strikes law", under which people who had committed three felonies would be jailed for 25 years to life.In the wake of the controversy over Craig Sweeney, the offender convicted of the kidnap and sexual assault of a child, there is now a campaign for similar UK laws - a version of which has already been seen to fail here - to be enacted. Life should mean life, is the cry. Two strikes - three if you're lucky - and you're out. But California provides a salutary lesson as to what can happen when a sweeping law is introduced in the heat of the moment.More than a decade after the three-strikes law was passed, thousands of minor offenders languish in Californian jails for such heinous crimes as shoplifting videos, pinching golf clubs or possessing small amounts of drugs. The most spectacular case is that of Leandro Andrade, a drug addict who was jailed for 50 years after stealing videos worth $153. When his case was taken to the supreme court in 2003, on the grounds that the sentence amounted to a "cruel and unusual" punishment, it was dismissed on a 5-4 majority. Many attempts to amend the law - backed even by the Polly Klaas's grandfather - so that it would deal with only violent offenders have foundered because legislators are terrified of being too soft on crime.Fortunately, we do not have a supreme court in this country that contains such weird, ideological zealots, but the rush to legislate is being fuelled by the same distortion of reality. The courts already have the powers to jail serious sex offenders for long periods of time. The introduction of new laws might make good headlines for politicians anxious to be seen to be doing something that would take the heat off their failings but, in terms of dealing with the serious problem of habitually violent and oppressive sex offenders, it would take us nowhere."Three strikes" and "two strikes" are imported baseball terms. Simple rules like that are fine for games, but criminal justice is not a field sport, however much some of our commentators might wish it to be. The reality is that we lock up too many people here already. We have more lifers than Germany, France, Italy and Turkey put together. Of course people like Craig Sweeney should be locked up for long periods of time, but existing laws, properly enforced, can already punish such offenders.At the end of the 80s, there were a number of horrific attacks by dogs on young children, and there were calls for action. A Conservative government, already in a state of terminal decline, speedily introduced the Dangerous Dogs Act 1991, rushed in under a home secretary facing pressure to do anything to show he was responding to the public mood. It created a chaotic mess in the courts. It is still often used as a classic example of what can go wrong when politicians leap to satisfy a few leader-writers and commentators too hastily.A dozen years after the "three strikes" law was introduced in California, relatives of non-violent offenders are still trying to reform it so that it applies only to violent offenders. Their attempts have foundered beneath exaggerated claims, often made by the criminal-industrial complex that profits from the state's prison population, of the horrors that would be unleashed if the law was changed. Of course, the punishment of the Sweeneys of this world is a legitimate debate, but even beleaguered politicians seeking popularity should resist the calls for a quick fix based on a deeply discredited law.duncan.campbell@theguardian.com