The following correction was printed in the Observer's For the record column on Sunday March 18 2007In this article, the writer said the Independent Police Complaints Commission 'takes only the most serious cases' of complaints against the police. We should clarify that while IPCC investigators have started 220 independent inquiries since last April, this represents only a small proportion of the total complaints lodged. The bulk are resolved locally, but complainants have a right of appeal to the IPCC.Look at what happened outside the Niche nightclub in Sheffield. See it as an optical illusion. The CCTV footage from the night of Toni Comer's birthday shows her legs twitching and the staccato beat of a policeman's fist striking her as hard as he could. That tableau is a snapshot of modern Britain. But which nation does it show? To some, the picture is one of police brutality. To others, it portrays a dubious scandal exploited by liberal witch-hunters. The black race campaigner who helped bolster Ms Comer's complaint has a criminal record himself, they point out, while she, blind drunk, had smashed up someone's car to the tune of £3,000.The police reaction implied that the events were hardly more than the normal lot of a beat cop intent on preserving the peace and his threatened genitals. Though the arresting officer was taken off the streets, the chief constable of South Yorkshire described as follows the threat posed by small women: 'It's not the size of the dog in the fight; it's the amount of fight in the dog.'Such politically incorrect language is not recommended to anyone hoping for a career on the Tory front benches. It does, however, hint at the frustration of policing for dangerous times. One chunk of the population is out of its brains either on vodka Fantas or Islamic fundamentalism, while another expects the constabulary to act as if starring in Midsomer Murders. Or so some officers must think.The story of Toni Comer is shocking, not least for what it says about routine violence. It was not, on the face of it, an overtly racist episode, despite claims to the contrary. The Black Police Association in South Yorkshire denies any link and Ms Comer has not sought to press a racial motive. What the pictures show is a cameo of brutal Britain.It is for the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) to unravel the facts, but the images have echoes in other, very different stories. Michael Williams, a journalist, last week wrote poignantly of how his 18-year-old daughter, Amy, returned home returned soaked in mud and blood after being robbed and stabbed in the chest with a screwdriver.Richard Madeley, less poignantly, shook his fist at a TV camera in a gesture of retribution against the mugger who took his daughter's mobile phone, saying such behaviour was NFL - 'Normal for London'. Nick Love, whose new (much-panned) film, Outlaw, shows vigilantes striking against street criminals, says his regular beatings by police in the days when officers could cuff hoodlums with impunity were the making of him. Hug a hoodie? Don't make him laugh.Love blames an 'impotent police force' for civic meltdown, along with Tony Blair. The Prime Minister, Love thinks, is soft on crime, which is like accusing Thatcher of cosying up to the miners, and the middle classes have been left to the mercy of thugs and gangs. Hence his celebration of vigilantism in a movie inspired by the true story of a student slashed and mugged by a group of teenagers.I have a similar story, though mine is minor. My son, also a student, was attacked last week by two young men. He did not quite lose consciousness and his head injuries were not severe. He has not concluded that Britain is more lawless, and nor have I, angry as I am that he should have been the victim of gratuitous violence for the third time in his relatively short life. I do not imagine that he, an inner-city boy, has been unusually unlucky.But although I understand the rage of Michael Williams, whose daughter could have died, nor do I share his view that liberalism has blinded the middle classes into ignoring society's drift to meltdown. Williams is sure the predatory 'dispossessed of the graffiti-covered estates' are now targeting the rich enclaves inhabited by people 'with Paul Smith suits and briefcases'. He believes, as does Love, that this is war. Like him, he is dubious about the sway of the police.Officers have an unenviable and dangerous role. Too feeble or too officious? They have swung both ways. The truncheon-happy outrages of the 1981 Brixton riots culminated, in the mid-Nineties, in a string of six-figure payments for assault, false imprisonment and malicious prosecution. Over three years, Scotland Yard paid out £4.5m.Already the countdown had started to the Stephen Lawrence murder, the Macpherson report, the Human Rights Act and a revival of policing by consent. Then came 9/11, the threat of terror and an uneasy tug of war between Dixon of Dock Greenery and heavy-handedness. By the time Jean Charles de Menezes was shot, public fear of all crime was rising, in general needlessly. Even so, the police had the nod to crack down on persistent offenders. According to criminologist Richard Garside, the Home Office has 'encouraged police to use their initiative in a way that was not previously seen'.Complaints have leapt again, by 15 per cent on the last annual figures. As Graham Smith, a regulatory law expert, points out, seeking independent redress is also much harder. The IPCC takes only the most serious cases and there is scant legal aid for suing the police. There is no suggestion that questionable behaviour is endemic among officers who face tough choices and grave risks. But the robust support for the one who hit Toni Comer hints that other enthusiastic arrests, unfilmed, might never reach the public's notice.Back in the rich suburbs, street violence affecting affluent white victims is never knowingly under-reported. Poorer black ones have, in general, to suffer more and die worse, in order to attract comparable interest. 'Postcode violence', in which unrest spreads through a locality, causes only a brief frisson. The recent shooting of three London teenagers is all but forgotten now. The focus has shifted, once again, to the middle classes, as if Britain's Acacia Avenues, awash with homicidal hoodies and crazed junkies, have become ghettos into which even Nick Love's vigilantes might hesitate to stray.That is absurd and yet something is happening. Is there war on Britain's streets? Liberals always debunk such nonsense, claiming that crime is falling steadily, which it is. But there is a new and particular mood of violence, rooted not in the slum estates but in the highest institutions. The Blair government's lust for conflict abroad and crackdowns at home may be more entwined than most have noticed. Fear, retribution and violence are in the air. The 'respect' agenda, designed to subdue mini-tyrants, is only the tougher end of foreign policy adapted for the domestic market.Last week's alarms about bigotry and the sacking of Tory home affairs spokesman Patrick Mercer show how institutional racism is being eradicated. Almost unnoticed, another evil has taken root. The Home Office and the Prison Service are increasingly and institutionally brutalist, which is why the Lord Chief Justice has to rail about excessive murder tariffs and the scandal of our inhumane, crime-incubating jails.No one is pushing a charter for marshmallow policies. Dangerous criminals must be locked up and those who attack the law-abiding punished. But good behaviour cannot be imposed by brutal governance, any more than democracy can be mandated by bomb and bullet. If the Iraq war has taught politicians nothing else, they must realise that a policy of ill-conceived belligerence only engenders more of the same, whether you are talking Baghdad or Birmingham.A policeman beats a woman to submission. Forget who's right or wrong and think of the image. Policing is a symbol of a civilisation. Is this the one we want and, if not, where do we go next? An insidious prescription is emerging. Us versus them, vigilantes versus muggers, rich versus poor. In an age of uncertainty, those rules of engagement could prove too beguiling to resist. And then it will be war.·  mary.riddell@observer.co.uk