Dame Shirley Porter's £12.3m deal with Westminster council to settle her long-running battle over the homes for votes scandal ran into fresh trouble last night when a Labour critic urged the Metropolitan police to investigate the Tesco heiress's actions for possible perjury.It was announced on Saturday that Dame Shirley, the former leader of the "flagship" Thatcherite council of the 1980s, had agreed with her municipal successors to pay £12.3m of the £42m in surcharge fines, interest and costs which have accumulated since the district auditor found her guilty of a housing policy designed to gerrymander votes, by selling off council houses in marginal wards to potential Tory voters. Dame Shirley is 74 and has been officially living abroad, in the US and Israel, since before the finding of "gross, wilful misconduct" in 1996 and the surcharge which she overturned on appeal, but lost in the Lords. Dame Shirley had long pleaded poverty, once claiming her assets were no more than £300,000, but Westminster's team had started tracing and freezing her assets where they found them in offshore family trusts. It is that aspect which yesterday made one of her equally tenacious critics, Peter Bradley, a former Westminster councillor who is now Labour MP for The Wrekin, both angry and determined to press for full restitution. "Just this time last year, Shirley Porter signed sworn affidavits to the courts claiming that she had no more than £300,000 in assets worldwide. Now she has suddenly found £12m to pay off her former acolytes at Westminster council," he said. He issued a statement saying: "I am writing to the chairman of the Audit Commission, James Strachan, to ask whether he has endorsed this shabby deal and if so on what basis. "What convincing evidence has he seen that Porter has now disclosed all her assets and that the terms Westminster council seems prepared to accept are in the best public interest?" In a move which lawyers say might prove serious in its implications, Mr Bradley added: "I am also asking the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stephens, to launch an urgent investigation into whether Porter's disclosure of assets last year constitutes a criminal case of perjury."Westminster, where a former Porter protege, Simon Milton, is now council leader, admits to taking a "pragmatic" view of what will be a useful bonus to the council even at a 70% discount. The council plans to spend the money on housing - a fitting detail insofar as building homes for sale in marginal wards was part of the strategy for which Dame Shirley and nine others were surcharged. But Mr Bradley argues that the deal was blatantly self-interested, one signed between "a discredited regime and its remnants". He urged the Tory leader, Michael Howard, to do what four of his predecessors, including Lady Thatcher, "were never able to do: condemn what Porter did". Last night Mr Bradley said: "It's a funny kind of justice when the felon is allowed to set her own sentence. If we all enjoyed the same rights Shirley Porter appears to have bought for herself, every prisoner would walk free and the rest of us could rip up our parking tickets." The Tories were keen to forget the past, he said. "But while they may want to draw a line under it, this remains unfinished business."