Should criminal courts lose the power to send people to prison for short periods for minor crimes? The idea is not only highly controversial but runs counter to the government's "tough on crime" agenda. Yet, with little public debate and scant awareness - even among those in the criminal justice system - this will happen next year.After the 2003 Criminal Justice Act comes fully into force over the next two years, magistrates' courts and the crown court will be deprived of the power to jail people for less than 28 weeks. The development is as far-reaching as the abolition of the stocks and pillory, once vital responses to lesser crimes, 200 years ago. When the criminal justice bill was before parliament, the main focus was the new "custody plus" sentence. Under this, the court would be able to sentence an offender to an overall package of at least 28 weeks, including a minimum of two weeks in custody plus 26 weeks on licence in the community. What many people - MPs included, presumably - seem to have missed is that before this package can be used a court must be satisfied that the offence merits at least a 28-week custodial sentence. So for a drink-driver two or three times over the legal limit, for example, where a magistrate might think of a two-or three-month prison sentence, that option will no longer be available. Under the act, all custodial sentences below 12 months fall into one of three categories. These are "custody plus" (a short custodial period followed by a longer period of supervision in the community); "intermittent custody" (weekend or evening imprisonment); or a new-style suspended sentence. Whichever is used, the new minimum overall term will be 28 weeks. It will not be possible to justify 28 weeks for many lesser offenders who nowadays receive one-, two- or three-month sentences, so the option of prison or young offender institutions for those offenders will disappear. As when the stocks were abolished, a new approach will be needed. Whether that approach works will depend on the existence of sound community programmes from the National Offender Management Service (the rebranded Probation Service) and on whether the judges believe in it. Otherwise it could go the way of key provisions of the Criminal Justice Act 1991 - which included a rule that previous convictions could not be taken into account in deciding on the seriousness of an offence. These had to be repealed within 18 months because of judicial unease and media criticism. Defence lawyers are certain to be watching for "ratcheting-up" - courts passing a longer sentence than the circumstances of the crime and the offender justify, in order to use imprisonment. More appeals are likely. While researching my book on the act, I found a surprising lack of understanding within the justice system about this change - even among those who would have been consulted when it was going through parliament. Media and parliamentary attention had focused on other controversial aspects of the bill - changes affecting juries, double jeopardy, and the rules of evidence. The change to sentencing powers would have been equally controversial, but it was embedded within complex and innovative proposals delinking the length of the sentence from the new minimum term. Some people have suggested that the short sentencing powers have been removed "covertly", but the broad policy is in the consultation documents, even if no one announced outright: "We are abolishing these powers." Ultimately, how the changes operate will be for the new Sentencing Guidelines Council, set up by the act and chaired by the lord chief justice. The council will issue guidance on how to put the new regime into practice, which courts have to follow. The Home Office would be bound to oppose any moves to "revalue" imprisonment to allow longer sentences, because these would further fuel the escalating prison population. On the contrary, the government's aim is to maximise the use of community sentences. Overall, penal reform groups ought to be pleased, assuming that the provisions are operated properly and community resources are available. Both government and reform groups have long understood that it makes sense to deal with lesser offenders within the community rather than in prison wherever possible. But this could cause unease among the public, who may view community sentences as lenient. An editorial in Justice of the Peace, the influential journal for courts and practitioners, has already criticised the abolition of the power to impose short prison sentences, which they believe can be effective in some cases. In the end, everything may depend on how easy it is to "sell" the changes to the courts and how this fits with the training received. Today, people convicted of certain offences of theft, criminal damage, drink driving, benefit fraud or even some assaults could go to prison for, say, a month, two months or three months. In future, they will have to be dealt with in the community. Just as we have learned to live without the stocks, we must learn to live without short sentences of imprisonment. · Bryan Gibson is a barrister, former justices' clerk and one-time adviser to the Magistrates' Association Sentencing of Offenders Committee. His latest book is The Criminal Justice Act 2003: A Guide to the New Procedures and Sentencing bryangibson@watersidepress.co.uk