Fifteen children are among the 68 people found crammed into lorries carrying consignments of Polish machines at Harwich international port in Essex.Seven people – including two pregnant women – were taken to Colchester general hospital with abdominal and chest pains after the group was discovered on Thursday night. East of England ambulance service said none were in a life-threatening or serious condition. . The stowaways – 35 Afghan nationals, 22 Chinese, 10 Vietnamese and one Russian – were found in four lorries that arrived on the Stena Hollandica, a freight and passenger ship. The local Conservative MP Bernard Jenkin, who was briefed by the authorities, said: “These people will have been put in a truck a long way from the port they came through in Holland. They will have been in sealed trucks. “Some of them were discovered by opening of trucks and having a look; some were found using scanners. But the message I am taking out of this, with the huge increase of people pressing to get into the UK, is that the Border Force is going to need more investment.”The 68 people are now in the care of the UK Border Force, and four lorry drivers were being questioned by the Home Office’s criminal investigations team at separate police stations, having been arrested on suspicion of immigration offences.Migrant groups said the means by which the people had arrived illustrated their desperation and urged the authorities to give them the opportunity to explain their situation. Leigh Daynes, executive director of Doctors of the World UK, which works with migrants in the area around Calais, said: “We need no further evidence that our immigration system is broken when pregnant women feel the need to smuggle themselves into the UK in a locked shipping container.”The Migrants’ Rights Network said the stowaways could have asylum claims and that entrapment by people traffickers could be involved.The organisation’s director, Don Flynn, said: “It is common to find that very basic issues on matters of human rights are central to these events of people-smuggling and we need to ensure that the UK authorities take this fully into account.”But Jenkin urged the prime minister to be tougher on immigration. He said more migrants could have entered the same way as most vehicles were not checked. “We have a problem with how our asylum rules are worked, subject to the Human Rights Act, European rules and that sort of thing,” he said.Jenkin described the discovery as “a very big success” for the Border Force: “This is one of the biggest, if not one of the biggest single finds of clandestines coming into the UK in this fashion. It’s bigger than anything found in Dover or any other ports.” The Stena Hollandica carries up to 1,200 passengers and 230 cars and has a cinema and casino on board. It left the Hook of Holland at 2.15pm and arrived in Harwich at 7.45pm on Thursday.The British Red Cross said staff and volunteers were responding to the immediate needs of the migrants, providing practical and emotional support as well as blankets, food and hygiene packs to those affected. At the busy freight and passenger port on Friday, yellow-vested drivers could be seen occasionally checking the back of their vehicles in parking areas to which public access is restricted.In February last year two immigrants died after leaping off a passenger ferry into the North Sea to try to swim 500 metres back to shore after being deported from Harwich. Artur Doda, 24, and Leonard Isufaj, 27, both from Albania, were being sent back to the Hook of Holland after arriving with 13 other stowaways in a lorry on a freight ferry at Harwich.In August last year 35 immigrants were discovered in a container at Tilbury Docks, also in Essex. One of them, 40-year-old Meet Singh Kapoor, from Afghanistan, was found dead. Later the same month, one person was taken to hospital after 13 people were found in the back of a lorry at the Dartford Crossing, in Kent.Last month David Cameron announced plans to make “Britain a less attractive place to come and work illegally”, as figures showed that net migration to Britain had surged to 318,000 in 2014.