A man who killed an innocent shopper after a row over queue jumping in a supermarket was jailed today for four years.Tony Virasami, 38, was sentenced at Southwark crown court for killing bystander Kevin Tripp after an argument between his ex-partner Antoinette Richardson and another man in a supermarket queue. Richardson, who called Virasami to the store and encouraged his violence, was jailed for 18 months.During the trial the court heard that Richardson was queuing at a cigarette kiosk at a Sainsbury's store in Merton, south-west London, when Adam Prendergast, described in the trial as "foul-mouthed", accused her of pushing in, before threatening to strike her in the resulting row.She rang Virasami, who was waiting for her in a car outside, who entered the store demanding to know who was responsible. Richardson pointed to Prendergast, but Virasami thought she was pointing at the innocent shopper.Virasami confronted the man, and without waiting for his reply hit him with "a most almighty" blow, described by one witness as an open-handed slap, by another as a "haymaker". Tripp, 57, who had a five-year-old daughter, was captured on CCTV falling over. He hit his head on the floor, causing bleeding to the brain. He later died of his injuries.As Tripp lay on the ground bloodied and unmoving, Richardson ‑ who at the time was on bail, tagged and under curfew for shoplifting ‑ was overheard saying: "We need to find the right guy." Virasami was arrested in the supermarket on 10 June last year, and later pleaded guilty to manslaughter. Richardson denied manslaughter but was convicted in February.Judge Geoffrey Rivlin said Tripp was an "entirely innocent man". He added: "He was just minding his own business, waiting in a queue to be served at the customer services counter, when suddenly you, Mr Virasami, rushed towards him and took such a powerful swing at his head that he was immediately floored."You both decided to take the law into your own hands by meting out violence to this man. But Mr Virasami mistook one person for another. Mr Tripp was the wrong man, an entirely innocent bystander," he said.Talking of the blow, he said there was "CCTV evidence, that, as a slap, it was unquestionably a very hard slap, delivered with a full swing, and considerable force, by an obviously physically fit and strong man".The judge added: "This was not merely criminal behaviour, but irresponsible, reckless and dangerous behaviour. It would have been bad enough if the right man had been struck, but that an entirely innocent man has lost his life, and his family have lost him forever, is a grave matter indeed."Virasami's numerous convictions, for dishonesty, assault and robbery, and his Class A drug problems were serious features in the case, the judge said.He told Virasami: "It is, I believe, right, despite your plea of guilty and your remorse, to reflect the revulsion and concern felt by Mr Tripp's nearest and dearest, who are condemned to suffer for this long after this case is over, and also to reflect the shock and concern felt by the public at large."He said Richardson, who had convictions for dishonesty, had started the episode and after Tripp had been struck, was more interested in finding Prendergast than in Virasami's victim. "I am satisfied that you were quite prepared for the fact that some violence was to be done, and you actively encouraged it," he told her.Tripp's brothers and sisters issued a statement which said that he suffered from ME. They described him as "a gentleman in every sense of the word" who had been "killed by a pair of drug-addicted professional shoplifters with one blow so hard they destroyed his brain". Tripp's brother Derek described the sentence as "a sad reflection on the British judicial system at this time".Tripp's partner, Josie James, said after the hearing: "It's not long enough. They took Kevin's life. The judge was pretty fair, but his hands were tied. I don't think four years is enough. I resigned myself to the fact they were going to get less but, in my heart of hearts, I wanted them to get life."