Supporters of Victor Nealon, the postman jailed for life for attempted rape, believe his conviction may soon be referred to the court of appeal, after the review body launched fresh investigations into the crime he always denied committing.Nealon has been in prison for nearly 15 years after being denied parole for consistently refusing to admit guilt. Now the criminal cases review commission (CCRC), on their third appraisal of Nealon's case, appears to be accepting that elements of his trial may have been flawed. In addition to this, items of clothing containing crucial DNA evidence were not examined.Nealon's solicitors established that underwear and a blouse belonging to the victim, a woman who was attacked after leaving a nightclub in Redditch in the West Midlands in 1996, were never sent for forensic tests. Independent scientific analysis they then commissioned discovered DNA samples belonging to another male – not Nealon. A search of the national DNA database, long requested by solicitors and local MP John Hemming, has apparently not thrown up a match.The commission are not believed to dispute the independent DNA findings, however, and have appointed investigators, including a detective from West Mercia police, to re-interview key witnesses.While the commission refuses to comment on individual cases and will not confirm any time frame, Nealon's solicitors are confident these developments will soon lead to the court of appeal. Mark Newby of Jordans LLP said: "We would hope that it is now moving to a positive conclusion. The case has been under review for quite some while now and it's time for further progress."Almost a year has passed since Newby filed a submission to the CCRC. When they twice decided not to refer Nealon's case for appeal before, in 2001 and 2002, the lack of fresh evidence was cited. By accepting the DNA findings that obstacle appears to have been removed.Friends reported earlier this year that Nealon was contemplating a hunger strike in Wakefield prison. Newby said: "He's been in a long time and if all our findings are true, I can understand his frustration."Newby has also forcefully queried the identification process that led to Nealon's conviction. If and when the conviction is overturned, he said, "there would be some searching questions to be asked of the police".