A young woman who claimed she was held down and beaten by her parents and was fearful of an arranged marriage was unlawfully killed in a "very vile murder", a coroner ruled yesterday.The body of Shafilea Ahmed, 17, of Warrington, Cheshire, was found in a flooded river in Sedgwick, Cumbria, in February 2004, five months after she disappeared from her home after a trip to Pakistan in which she was introduced to a suitor. During the trip, she drank bleach and harmed herself in an apparent cry for help.The south and east Cumbria coroner, Ian Smith, said: "Shafilea was the victim of a very vile murder and there's no evidence before the court as to who did it. There are things people know that have not been told to this court."He said he hoped further inquiries would be carried out by the police "and I hope they will discover who did it because this young woman has not had justice."Her ambition was to live her own life in her own way: to study, to follow a career in the law and to do what she wanted to do. These are just basic fundamental rights and they were denied to her."Ruling the cause of death was "unascertained", he said he was satisfied she did not die of natural causes or suicide. "Quite simply, she was murdered," he said yesterday, as her parents sat in front of him.He had reached this conclusion because of the way the body was disposed of - "it had been hidden and she had been taken many miles away from home".He said Shafilea did not want to be married to somebody she did not know and might not like. "She didn't want to stop her studies and maybe have to live abroad away from where she was brought up, educated and wanted to forge a career. She was a very frightened young woman," he added. "She was frightened of the consequences of an arranged marriage."He said: "I am quite sure she was torn between her own wish for freedom and her genuine love for her family, particularly her brothers and sisters. I am sure it was agonising for her to experience."In the days leading up to her disappearance and murder in September 2003, Smith said, Shafilea had been "going forward" with her life. She was back at college with ambitions to be a solicitor.The coroner said there was no corroboration that Iftikhar Ahmed or his wife, Farzana, had hit their daughter or stolen money from her bank account, although friends claimed they stole £2,000 from her. The couple were arrested on suspicion of kidnap and five relatives from Bradford were also arrested. All were later released after being on bail for 18 months.Anne Marie Woods, a senior homelessness officer with Warrington borough council, told the hearing on Wednesday: "She had been staying with friends and had nowhere to live. She was fleeing domestic violence and an arranged marriage. She said there had been an escalation of violence since she was 15. One parent would hold her down while the other parent was hitting her."Her mother had started packing and was told she was going to Pakistan for an arranged marriage and that is why she was leaving home."Shafilea handed Woods a note which read: "Over the past few years I have been experiencing domestic violence which has stopped me coming to college on more than one occasion. They have also forced me to quit my job - from that I saved up £2,000, which they took out of my bank account. But my fear is that my parents were going to Pakistan to get me married to someone and left there."Her friend Melissa Powner, 21, said Shafilea was friendly and always laughing, but did not have much of a life outside college. In October 2002, Shafilea was found in a park near the college looking cold and shaken after she had been absent for a week and a half. "She was brought to college and said she had escaped from the house early in the morning."She had faded bruises and scratches to the left of her neck. She said she had been locked in the house and hadn't been allowed out."When Shafilea ran away from home in February 2003, the two friends were walking to school when they saw her father's car. "She was just petrified and froze - as did I," Powner said. "He got her by the arm and just shoved her in the car and told me to get out of the way and keep out of it. She was crying hysterically. He was quite calm, but firm, and casual about it."Powner ran into school and told teachers, who contacted police.On the penultimate day of the inquest, Shafilea's mother claimed the friends and teachers were lying almost to the point of conspiracy. She denied beating her daughter or being involved in the disappearance or her death.The coroner said: "I do not think there was any such conspiracy. These were genuine witnesses throughout and had her best interests at heart."Shafilea's mother claimed her daughter had accidentally swallowed bleach mistaking it for mouthwash during a power cut. But Smith disagreed and said he believed it was "a desperate measure to get herself out of a situation she didn't want to be in".Shafilea's parents left the inquest without commenting.Detective Superintendent Geraint Jones, who led the murder inquiry, said the investigation would "never close until those responsible are brought to justice". He added that there were people who knew what had happened to Shafilea, and appealed to them to come forward.'Honour' killings· Globally, the United Nations Population Fund estimates that as many as 5,000 women and girls are the victims of "honour" killings· There are an estimated 12 "honour" killings in Britain each year· It is believed that the youngest family member often carries out the murder and hitmen are sometimes involved· The Metropolitan police receive approximately 100 calls a week from people potentially affected· Figures suggest that two to three times as many young Asian women commit suicide as the national average· The forced marriage unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office sees around 300 cases a year· In a poll of 500 Hindus, Sikhs, Christians and Muslims aged between 16 and 34 who were surveyed for the BBC's Asian Network in 2006, 10% said they would condone the murder of someone who offended their family honour· Outside the UK, honour killings have been reported in countries throughout the world including Bangladesh, Brazil, Ecuador, Egypt, Germany, India, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Jordan, Morocco, Pakistan, Palestine, Sweden, Turkey, and Uganda· The Metropolitan police reopened more than 100 cases from the last decade arousing suspicion over "honour crime" links