The man accused of murdering Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman was charged with rape in 1998, his Old Bailey trial heard today.The dramatic revelation in Ian Huntley's murder trial came when the jury was read a police statement from the former school caretaker's ex-girlfriend, Maxine Carr, who the prosecution alleges gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for the day the girls went missing on August 4 last year. Ms Carr, 26, a former teaching assistant at the 10-year-old girls' primary school, made the statement on August 17 last year, after the couple were both arrested on suspicion of their murders. "The reason why I told the police I was at home was because my partner Ian, he was accused in 1998 of attacking a girl, of raping a girl," Ms Carr said in the statement.She said the case went to court and that he was "acquitted" but that he subsequently suffered "a nervous breakdown". Her statement was read out to the court by prosecution barrister Karim Khalil. In it Ms Carr told interviewing police officers: "I haven't got anything to hide really, nothing." She told her interviewers that she was not in Soham on August 4 or 5, but came back to Soham on Tuesday the 6th. She was "actually in Grimsby" on the weekend the girls went missing, the court heard. Ms Carr then stated that the reason she had not told the truth previously about where she was that weekend was because her partner "was accused in 1998 of attacking a girl, raping a girl". "He was put in prison or a bail hostel or whatever," her statement said, adding: "Police came up with a video of him in a nightclub at the time it was supposed to have happened." Ms Carr then told the police: "When I found out he was the last person to speak to them I just did not know what to do." She said Mr Huntley had told her to tell the police that she was in Grimsby and told officers: "He just hasn't done anything. He just doesn't do anything like that." Mr Huntley told her the names of the missing girls and said they had been to their house to ask after her, Ms Carr's statement added. She then said everything she had previously told police was true "apart from the fact I wasn't there". Asked by the officers when she had decided to tell a lie, she said it was when Mr Huntley rang her on August 5 and was in "absolute tears because he was the last person to have spoken to them, the last person to have seen them". Ms Carr added: "He said: 'I am going to get fitted up again just like I did before'." She told officers she could not see him going through that again, saying: "I just wanted to protect him from having all his past being thrown back in his face." Later in her statement, Ms Carr answered questions about the couple's Soham home, including the bathroom. She told officers they would need to do something to the bathroom because Mr Huntley's dog, Sadie, had broken the bath. She said Mr Huntley told her the incident happened on the Sunday, when he had tried to wash Sadie in the bath and the dog's "scrambling" put a crack in the plastic bath. He told her about this when she came back to Soham from Grimsby and noticed water leaking through the bathroom floor into the dining room, the court heard. Mr Huntley had already fixed the crack with sealant, her statement added. Following the couple's arrest, investigating officers who searched their house reported a single sealed crack in the bath, the court heard earlier today. Huntley's account challengedEarlier, a home office pathologist described Mr Huntley's account of Holly and Jessica dying accidentally in his bathroom as "unlikely".Dr Nat Cary, who conducted post-mortems on the two 10-year-olds, was today giving evidence in response to Mr Huntley's explanation, which his defence counsel read to the court yesterday.Dr Cary said it was "unlikely at the least" that Holly could have drowned in Mr Huntley's bath as the result of a fall. Yesterday, Stephen Coward QC, for Mr Huntley, told the court that Holly had drowned after the 29-year-old inadvertently knocked her backwards into a full bath as he tried to help her stem a nosebleed. Mr Huntley claims he then put his hand or hands somewhere on Jessica's head, neck or face, in an attempt to stop her screaming "you pushed her", his lawyer said. Mr Huntley "cannot say" how long he stayed in that position, but said that Jessica then fell lifeless to the bathroom floor. When he turned to see what had happened to Holly, he found that she was lying lifeless in 18ins of water, the court heard.On the statement that Holly had fallen into the bath, Dr Cary said: "I am just doubtful with that bath and that [small-sized] bathroom, with her in that sitting position ... whether it is possible for her to become immersed and drown."Dr Cary told the court that he would expect somebody slipping backwards to fall with their buttocks into the water but then become wedged, adding: "I don't see how the head could become immersed."Dr Cary said he was sure "one could work out a theoretical way of her being propelled into the bath so that she ends up immersed", but added: "If you look at the population at large, if this happened at all, it must be vanishingly rare."He also questioned why Mr Huntley had not been able to pull Holly out in time to prevent her drowning, saying: "Why no rescue of Holly? ... Drowning would take some time. It's not instantaneous." "If the whole thing was only the innocent help being given with a nosebleed, I see no reason why that goodwill should not be continued to lift her [Holly] out of the bath," he continued. In his experience, Dr Cary said, drownings in bathrooms are solitary "because, by definition, human beings rescue each other". The pathologist told the court that drownings in baths usually happen to "the severely alcohol intoxicated, or drug intoxicated, or people suffering from the like of epilepsy"."I would associate drowning when a third party is present, and I have experience of this myself, with forced drowning, in other words that the third party's holding you under water," he said. On Mr Huntley's statement that the bath had been full, with an estimated 18in of water already in it when the girls entered the bathroom, Dr Cary said that the bath's overflow outlet was at a height of 11in, making his claim unrealistic. The same bath was brought into the courtroom today, and a police witness measured various distances within it. The jury heard that the distance from the bottom of the bath to the overflow outlet was 11in, while the full depth of the bath was 17in. "In my view, unless the overflow is in some way blocked, the suggested 18in doesn't exist as a realistic possibility," Dr Cary said. "If the depth is only 11in then the opportunity for the nose and mouth to become completely immersed simply through a passive accident becomes in my view very unlikely."On the statement that Holly had been in the bathroom because Mr Huntley was helping her to stem a heavy nosebleed, Dr Cary said he would have expected some of her blood to have been found in the bathroom or on her Manchester United shirt, which had not been the case. Dr Cary said that the absence of such a finding was surprising, and went against the supposed scenario.On the statement that Jessica died while Mr Huntley was attempting to calm her panicked screams, Dr Cary said he found it "wholly implausible" that she could have been smothered to death in an upright posture."The only way ... would have been through forced restraint against vigorous struggling," he added. Dr Cary said he would not expect smothering to be capable of causing rapid death. Compression of the neck (strangulation) could occasionally cause rapid death, but would "take many seconds and would very likely go through a loss of consciousness ... therefore to complete the task, the nose or mouth would have to continue to be covered when Jessica had already collapsed unconscious".If Jessica had collapsed in a short time period, Holly would only have been in the bath for a few seconds, and, in his opinion, could still have been rescued, Dr Cary added. He suggested that "the restraint, the covering of the nose and mouth of Jessica, prevented her ... from being able to rescue her friend from the bath, if that's what happened".In conclusion, Dr Cary told Mr Coward that he could not absolutely exclude Mr Huntley's account as a theoretical possibility but said that, in his professional experience, he was "not aware of any scenario quite like the one you raised". Under cross-examination from Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, Dr Cary said his lack of positive pathological findings from his examination of the girls' severely decomposed bodies meant he could not rule out the possibility that they died in the way the defence outlined. But he added that the same lack of findings meant he also could not rule out other possibilities, such as strangulation, sexual assault or deliberate drowning. Mr Huntley denies murdering Holly and Jessica, but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges that she gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for the day the girls went missing, Sunday August 4 last year. Their bodies were found in a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, 13 days later.The trial continues.