Authors of factual books should have a higher "duty of care" than journalists working for daily newspapers, a London libel court was told yesterday, because they had more time to verify allegations and were not facing immediate deadlines. The claims were made in what is believed to be the first libel case in which a book publisher has sought to use the so-called Reynolds defence.A former police officer, Michael Charman, claims he was defamed by the book Bent Coppers, by Graeme McLagan, the BBC's expert on police corruption for more than 20 years. The book was first published in hardback in 2003 by the defendant in the case, the Orion Publishing Group, and an expanded version of it appeared in paperback the next year. Both editions were subtitled The Inside Story of Scotland Yard's Battle Against Police Corruption."McLagan has set out to tell a rollicking good story of police corruption," said Hugh Tomlinson QC, for Mr Charman. He said that, while he was perfectly entitled to tell the story in book form, he was "under a strong duty" to take steps to verify allegations made. He added that "it is no part of Mr Charman's case to say that this story should not have been told at all."Mr Tomlinson said that at the heart of the story was a man called Geoffrey Brennan, described by the QC as "a liar, a thief, a fraudster", who had made "uncorroborated allegations" against Mr Charman and another police officer. Mr Brennan's claims about the officers amounted to a "cock and bull story", he said."It's a good story and we can quite see why a journalist would want to tell it," he told the court. However, it was important that an author include balancing material when dealing with potentially defamatory allegations.The whole operation mounted by anti-corruption officers on the basis of Mr Brennan's claim had been "a complete disaster", resulting in no prosecutions, charges or disciplinary action against officers, said Mr Tomlinson. As a result, he said, the authorities concerned might seek to justify themselves.In terms of providing balancing material or checking allegations, a book author had a greater responsibility than a daily newspaper reporter, he suggested. "A journalist on a daily newspaper may have a matter of hours or days, but an author has months or even years," he said. A comparison could be made with a doctor who stopped to attend to an emergency at the side of the road and who could not be criticised for failing to carry out a scan, while a hospital doctor would have no such excuse. Mr Tomlinson said that he would be offering no evidence.Orion, which is being represented by Adrienne Page QC, will start its defence today. The case is due to last one week.The "Reynolds defence" of qualified privilege was developed in the judgment on the libel action by the former Irish prime minister Albert Reynolds against the Sunday Times. In theory, it allows the media to print allegations that are in the public interest, irrespective of whether their truth can be ascertained, so long as certain important tests are applied.