Owen Bowcott's article on flexible courts (Lawyers angered by flexible courts plan, 10 July) highlights a worrying development in the Ministry of Justice's responsibility to deliver justice in England and Wales. Richard Atkinson of the Law Society should be worried as the MoJ has cut thousands of jobs and proposes to downgrade skilled work to the remaining inexperienced staff who are already overstretched. Now they are expected to work all hours in police stations and community centres. Consultation is not the MoJ's strong point, as trade unions in the ministry can testify to.But our biggest concern for the proposed Kafkaesque flexible courts plan is the lack of consideration of health and safety for the public who use our services. There have been too many job cuts and too many court closures, and now it is being proposed magistrates work alone without legal advice and from unknown and unassessed buildings. It is time the judges took notice of what is happening.Phil CosgroveChairman, Public and Commercial Services Union• Owen Bowcott is quite right to air the vexed issue of the very advanced proposals for evening and weekend courts – the idea is philosophically and economically illiterate, apart from being an unnecessary distraction from the true ills of the system. Fundamentally, they are under-informed managerialism.The riots may have justified courts being kept open outside customary hours, notwithstanding the significant, additional cost to the exchequer. In my almost 46 years of experience in the Birmingham magistrates court I can recall periods when the entire court premises were teeming with defendants, witnesses, relatives of both, solicitors and other court agency personnel. Now, by mid-morning, we expect to see the tumbleweed drifting down the court corridors.There is a different – and important – debate to be had about whether or not diversions from the court process to such an extent are in the public interest. Suffice it to say for the present that there is loads of spare capacity at the Birmingham magistrates court during orthodox sitting hours. It follows that it would be downright profligate to squander significant additional funds on all that would be entailed in opening up the court premises outside those orthodox hours. A riot scenario is a riot scenario; due process otherwise requires a more measured approach in keeping with the authority due to be paid to the rule of law.In any event, where is the evidence that complainants and witnesses on both sides wish to have their evenings and weekends disrupted when, if in work or with family responsibilities, there is a long and honourable tradition of those issues having been accommodated with no extension to the current hours of court business? Leave of absence from work in appropriate cases could not in such circumstances be denied. Have we learned nothing from the ruinously expensive Blair-driven night court pilots which ought once and for all to have killed off these madcap schemes, or is it yet another case of a No 10-inspired "brainwave" brooking no argument?Malcolm FowlerSolicitor, Dennings, Tipton, West Midlands• There are two postscripts to your excellent article (Heavy sentences may not have been riot deterrence – Starmer, 4 July). First, "off camera", those involved with the "riot courts" will tell you the extra courts were unnecessary and the volume of defendants produced to court over those few days could easily have been accommodated in the ordinary day court sittings. Second, the government is now pressuring all professional court users to take part in evening courts, Saturday courts and Sunday courts. Of course, there is no extra funding available and the massive reduction in magistrates court criminal work means that most magistrates courts around the country have vast spare capacity during ordinary working hours anyway. Needless to say, there appears to be no data or research to suggest that victims, witnesses or defendants want courts in the evening, on Saturday or Sunday.Steven JonasSolicitor, Birmingham