A Thai woman and three male accomplices were jailed for life today for the murder of her British ex-husband, whose charred remains were found in the jungle.Toby Leicester Charnaud, 41, from Chippenham, Wiltshire, was lured to the home of his ex-wife, Panatda Raolueang, 35, in Petchaburi, around 65 miles south-west of Bangkok.Two of her relatives and another man were waiting for Mr Charnaud who they initially tried to shoot, Petchaburi provincial court heard. However, when the gun failed to work, they beat him to death with an iron bar and burned his body on a stack of charcoal.They then buried his remains in a hole they had dug in advance at a nearby national park.The court convicted Panatda and the three men - Bunthiam Phuiphong, 31, Chatri Sriprathum, 28, and Niphit Satabut, 27 - of premeditated murder. Judge Sarayuth Busayanawin said Panatda was "guilty of hiring other people to commit murder".Panatda, who had a son with Mr Charnaud, had been in custody since her arrest in May 2005. Today she blinked back tears as the verdict was read and said later: "It's not bad being in prison ... I don't feel anything."Sarah Charnaud, the victim's mother, did not attend the hearing but issued a statement saying his family's "lives have been shattered" by the murder.She called her son a kind and generous man and a wonderful father. The statement said: "For me, his mother, one of the worst horrors of his death is the fact that the first attempt to kill him failed and he would have been aware of his murderers making their fatal attack."Mr Charnaud met Panatda when she was working as a security guard at a shopping mall in Bangkok and he married her in 1997. They went to England to live with Mr Charnaud's parents for three years, but later returned to Thailand where Mr Charnaud bought two bars in the popular beach resort town of Hua Hin.He divorced Panatda in 2004 after learning that she had an affair with a Thai police officer and because of her gambling habit, which had pushed the couple into massive debt, said the Charnaud family lawyer, Bunchu Yensabai.Their four-year-old son was under Mr Charnaud's custody, but the boy regularly visited his mother.Panatda said under police questioning that Mr Charnaud had become involved with another woman and she was concerned about the wellbeing of her son. The court heard that she feared her son would face hardship and therefore wanted to kill her husband.At the time of the murder, Panatda and the child were at a nearby fair. The three other defendants admitted to killing Mr Charnaud but said they were provoked because he interrupted them while they were drinking whisky. They denied the killing was premeditated.Panatda initially reported her husband as missing but admitted during the trial that she had lied to police. The court cleared two other defendants, who accompanied Panatda to the fair, ruling there was not sufficient evidence to prove they were involved in the murder plot.