An unemployed man appeared in court today charged with three murders as the third dead woman in the so-called bin bag murder inquiry was named.Anthony John Hardy appeared briefly at Hendon magistrates' court, north London, where chairman of the bench Giovanni Fabrizi remanded him in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on January 13.Mr Hardy is charged with murdering Sally Rose White on or before January 20 2002, and with murdering Elizabeth Valad, 29, and Bridgette Cathy MacClennan, 34, on or before December 30 2002. Ms MacClennan was the only victim not to have been named until today. It is believed her name was not released while police were trying to contact her next of kin. Mr Hardy, 51, of Hartland House, Royal College Street, Camden Town, north London, spoke only to confirm his name, age and address during the court hearing.The dismembered remains of two of the women - Ms MacClennan and Ms Valad - were found in bin bags in Camden Town in the early hours of December 30. Ms White's body was found at Mr Hardy's address in January last year. Mr Hardy was clean-shaven and wearing dark trousers and a dark and light blue sweatshirt when he appeared in the dock. On Saturday, police named Ms Valad, originally from Nottingham, as one of the women whose body parts were found by a tramp foraging for food in bins behind the College Arms pub on Royal College Street last Monday.Ms Valad, who was also known as Liz or Lizzy, was identified by her breast implants. Parts of her legs were found, but her head and hands are still missing. The investigation began when police were informed that severed limbs had been taken to the nearby National Hospital for Tropical Diseases by their finder, prompting major searches in the area which turned up more body parts. A special service was held at St Pancras Old Church to pray for the women. Father Tim Pike, who led the mass, said the congregation had been in a "sombre mood". "It was a very good service indeed," he added. "We had people in the congregation from the street where the bodies were found, and someone who was a friend of Elizabeth came after he heard about the service."It was a chance to reflect on what has happened and think about how to move on from this and keep the community strong. They feel hopeful even though they are shocked and distressed by what has happened."