A prisoner who has spent a decade claiming he was a victim of a miscarriage of justice has finally admitted he did kill a pensioner.Simon Hall, whose case has been featured on television and in national newspapers, was jailed for life in 2003 for the murder of Joan Albert, 79, in her home in Capel St Mary, Suffolk. She was found in her hallway on 16 December 2001 after being stabbed five times.Hall, now 35, had protested his innocence, launching a series of appeals, winning the backing of MPs and appearing in the BBC documentary Rough Justice. His case was referred by the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) to the court of appeal in 2009 where Hall was represented by the prominent barrister Michael Mansfield QC.The evidence turned on fibres from his trousers said to link him to his victim's home. The court dismissed his appeal, ruling that the forensic material was sufficient to convict him. Hall still denied being involved.Inquiries by the CCRC and the police had been continuing until this summer when Hall, previously from Ipswich, admitted his guilt to prison authorities and ended his campaign. The website Justice4SimonHall now displays the message: "This site is closed."Suffolk police said: "Over the 10 years since Hall's conviction there have been a number of appeals and campaigns which have asserted that Simon Hall was wrongfully convicted of Mrs Albert's murder."These events and the related uncertainty have undoubtedly exacerbated the suffering Mrs Albert's family have had to endure since Joan was murdered. We sincerely hope that Simon Hall's admissions to having committed this brutal crime will in some way enable the family to move on with their lives."The CCRC said it was almost unprecedented for anyone to protest their innocence over such a long period and then admit their guilt. "The prison authorities have informed us that he has confessed to the murder of Joan Albert," a spokesman said. "We went through the prison authorities and asked if he wanted to withdraw his application to us. We have now closed the case."In an online post this year, Hall told supporters that he was preparing to be released from prison. In the latest message, put on his website last month, he said he had been moved to Hollesley Bay open prison in Suffolk and was due to be released to a bail hostel.When he was first jailed in 2003, however, he was given a given a minimum tariff of 15 years by the crown court.Hall's mother, Lynne, told the East Anglian Daily Times: "I'm absolutely shocked because I know he is innocent and I still believe he is. But it's the system. If he had pleaded guilty in the beginning, he would be home now. I know he has been really low and in hospital recently. He's given up."Relatives of his victim told the paper: "During the last 10 years the publicity surrounding the appeals has been very distressing for our family, making moving on impossible, but we would like to thank Suffolk police, including [retired detective superintendent] Roy Lambert and his team, who carried out the original investigation, to present day officers who continue to support us. We are also grateful to those who have helped us throughout this difficult ordeal."Albert spent all of her life living in Suffolk. During the second world war she worked in a ball-bearings factory and she also worked as a hairdresser and in shops before retiring. Her husband, Cyril, died in the early 1990s. They never had children.At Hall's original trial at Norwich crown court, jurors were told that Albert had been the victim of a "sudden, savage and brutal attack" after a burglary attempt went wrong. They heard that Hall, who had previous convictions for violence, had been out drinking with friends in Ipswich and had an alibi for most of the night and following morning, except between 5.30am and 6.15am, which could have corresponded with the time of Albert's death.Fingerprints, footprints and DNA evidence found at the murder scene did not match Hall's. He submitted two applications to the CCRC to consider his case.