The Independent Police Complaints Commission is to examine the circumstances in which an 18-month-old girl was taken from a London police station by a woman posing as a family member.Audrey Kessie Nyanor was found safe today. She had been taken to Walworth police station, south London at 8am on Thursday morning with her mother, Cynthia Boakye, 36, after she had been arrested over alleged immigration offences. But the family accused the police of making "a great mistake" hours later in handing the child to a woman who turned up posing as a relative who had been expected to come and collect her.A 31-year-old woman who was with Audrey was arrested on suspicion of abduction at around 3pmtoday on Harlesden High Street, north London, following a call to police from a member of the publicThe Metropolitan police has referred the case to the commission, which said that it was to carry out an assessment.The child's grandmother, Agatha Owsuah, said that at the station her daughter should have been asked to confirm the woman's identity: "They ask for my ID when I take money from the bank, they ask for ID before you can get a job. They should have asked for ID before handing over a human being to someone."Owsuah said an officer had asked her daughter who to call to look after her child, and initially contacted Boakye's stepfather. He visited the station but said he could not take the child because he was working, and officers were given the number of another relative who agreed to come. Owsuah believes that someone at the station overheard an officer making a call to this relative and came back later pretending to be that relative.A Metropolitan police spokesman said the details the woman gave to the police corresponded with the name of the woman who Boakye had said would pick up her daughter, and this woman had left at 10.40am with the girl. "Subsequently it became apparent the woman was not the same person who had been organised to pick up the child," the spokesman said.An investigation was begun and Scotland Yard released CCTV footage of the woman. Owsuah's husband, Eric Obeng, 48, said police arrested him and several others the day after but bailed them without charge.He said: "They thought we had taken the child. Why would we do that?" The girl's mother was also released on bail. Her daughter was in the care of officers at a west London police station this evening.