The new attack on drug dealers unveiled by Tony Blair yesterday includes harsher sentences for those who operate near a school or use children as couriers. It will also introduce a new legal presumption that anyone caught with more drugs than would be needed for personal consumption will be prosecuted as a dealer. Such an offence carries a maximum 14-year sentence for cannabis alone.A drug intervention programme is also to be expanded into 32 new areas from April. Under it, offenders charged with a range of drug-related crimes, including theft, have to take a compulsory drug test. Those who test positive face a voluntary course of treatment in a scheme which has put an additional 1,500 addicts a month in touch with the drug treatment services in the 66 areas in which it operates. The measures are to be included in the drugs bill announced this week in the Queen's speech. It is expected to be published before Christmas and will be followed in January by a three-month campaign to close drug dens and crack houses.The prime minister also announced that addicted young offenders will be forced to take part in drug treatment courses as part of their community punishments in five pilot schemes to start immediately in Manchester, Calderdale, Newham, Bradford and Middlesbrough. Drug welfare campaigners last night welcomed the fact that the government has dropped a plan to make it a criminal offence to have heroin in the bloodstream. The Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats welcomed the measures but criticised them for not going far enough. The Tory leader Michael Howard outlined his own six-point drug programme including an expansion of compulsory treatment in residential courses while the Liberal Democrats said that without a date for the bill's publication it could easily fall by the wayside before next year's expected general election. Announcing the measures, Mr Blair said the measures reflected police concerns. "We are offering a choice," he said. "If you are a drug addict engaged in crime, you will be offered a way out through treatment and help. "If you refuse that offer, it will be made more difficult for you at every stage in the criminal justice system." In addition, the drugs bill will include powers to: 路 Introduce compulsory drug testing of those arrested by the police whom they suspect have been abusing drugs. 路 Give magistrates the power to remand people suspected of swallowing packages of drugs into police custody for a further 192 hours so that substances can pass through the system.路 Introduce a new presumption that those caught in possession of more drugs than reasonable for personal use are guilty of intent to supply rather than possession for use. 路 Make dealing near a school or using children as couriers an aggravating factor for sentencing so drug dealers found guilty of this would face a tougher penalty. Mr Howard outlined his own scheme to introduce random drug testing into schools; a 10-fold expansion of residential treatment places and end the relaxation of the law on cannabis. Martin Barnes, chief executive of DrugScope, the main drugs charity, welcomed the government's decision to step back from making the presence of drugs in the blood stream a criminal offence or introducing compulsory treatment programmes for adults who have not been convicted of a crime. "The evidence clearly shows that getting people into treatment is more effective at reducing drug abuse and crime than locking them in prison," said Mr Barnes but added that expanding treatment places was not enough. "The success rate of referrals to treatment needs to be improved and the drop out rate on compulsory testing and treatment orders remains high," he said.