The shooting of a 15-year-old boy as he walked along a street in Derby with friends last night adds to a catalogue of violent deaths involving teenagers around the UK this year. January 1 - Henry Bolombi, 17, dies from a single stab wound to the chest after being attacked while walking home in Edmonton, north London, after celebrating New Year. January 1 - Bradley Whitfield, 16, dies from a puncture wound to the neck after a street attack near his home in Leicester in the early hours. January 5 - Faridon Alizada, 18, of Bexley, south-east London, dies from three stab wounds to the chest after being attacked in Verona House, a tower block in Erith. January 21 - Boduka Mudianga, 18, known by his middle name Louis, dies in a street brawl in Silver street, Edmonton, north London. He was stabbed. January 26 - Fuad Buraleh, 19, of Hayes, Middlesex, dies from a head injury after being beaten minutes after getting off a bus in Dean Gardens, Uxbridge Road, Ealing, west London. February 10 - Louis Braithwaite, 16, dies in hospital in Manchester 12 days after being shot inside a bookmaker's in Mauldeth Road West, Withington, on January 29. February 11 - Joe Dinsdale, 17, dies in hospital from a stab wound to the stomach after being attacked in Bilton Grove, Hull. February 19 - Sunday Essiet, 15, dies after being attacked following a row between groups of youths in Invermore Place, Woolwich, south-east London. February 23 - Tung Le, 17, of Deptford, south-east London, is attacked during a row outside a nightclub in Cockspur Street. He dies from a stab wound. February 29 - Ofiyke Nmezu, 16, known as Iyke, of Edmonton, north London, dies in hospital from a skull fracture. He had suffered a head injury in a brick attack on February 15 but did not go to hospital for two weeks.March 10 - Ahmed Mohammed Ibrahim, 17, dies after being stabbed in the head near Sefton Park in Croxteth Drive, Liverpool. March 13 - Michael Jones, 18, dies from severe head injuries and a stab wound to the chest after being attacked by an intruder at his home in Stanley Road, Edmonton, north London. March 14 - Nicholas Clarke, 19, dies from a gunshot wound to the head after a shooting at the Myatts Field estate, Brixton, south London. March 27 - Devoe Roach, 17, dies after apparently being stabbed in the chest in Stamford Hill, north London. March 27 - Amro Elbadawi, 14, of West Kilburn, dies from a stab wound after being knifed in Queen's Park, west London. March 27 - Ashley Horton, 16, dies in hospital after being stabbed in the leg at a boarded-up house in Tern Grove, Hawkesley, Birmingham. May 3 - Lyle Tulloch, 15, from Peckham, south London, is fatally stabbed in a stairway of a block of flats. May 10 - Jimmy Mizen, 16, is fatally attacked with a shard of glass in a bakery in Lee, south-east London. May 24 - Rob Knox, 18, is stabbed to death in a fight outside the Metro Bar in Station Road, Sidcup, south-east London. May 25 - Amar Aslam, 17, is beaten to death in a walled garden of Crow Nest Park in Dewsbury, West Yorkshire. May 28 - Sharmaarke Hassan, 17, dies in hospital after being shot in the head in Camden, north London, on May 24. June 2 - Arsema Dawit, 15, is stabbed to death in a block of flats near Waterloo station, south London. June 7 - Frazer Endicott, 19, dies after being found stabbed on a pavement in Bainbridge Road, Balby, Doncaster, south Yorkshire, in the early hours. June 29 - Ben Kinsella, 16, dies after he is stabbed in York Way, Islington, north London. July 3 - Shakilus Townsend, 16, dies after being stabbed and beaten with a baseball bat in Thornton Heath, south London. July 7 - David Idowu, 14, dies almost three weeks after being stabbed in an attack in Great Dover Street, south London. July 10 - Melvin Bryan, 18, is fatally stabbed in an attack at a bedsit in Gloucester Road, Edmonton, north London. July 11 - Tarek Chaiboub, 17, is gunned down at a barber's shop in the Burngreave area of Sheffield. July 17 - Frederick Moody, 18, is stabbed to death near Stockwell tube station in Lambeth, south London.August 6 - Ryan Bravo, 18, dies from a single gunshot wound to the back in a drive-by shooting at a Costcutter store in Walworth, south-east London. August 16 - Nilanthan Murddi, 17, dies three hours after being stabbed in a street fight in Croydon, south London. August 16 - Conor Black, 16, dies in Manchester after being stabbed in the shoulder in Moston Lane, Harpuhey, in the early hours. August 24 - Charles Junior Hendricks, 18, dies after being stabbed in Walthamstow, north-east London, in the early hours. August 24 - Mohammed Al-Majed, 16, dies in a London hospital two days after being attacked near a takeaway in Hastings, East Sussex. August 24 - Dominic Barritt, 18, of Clacton, Essex, dies after being punched during a street attack in Walton, Essex, in the early hours of August 23. August 30 - Shaquille Smith, 14, dies in hospital after he was stabbed once in the stomach in St Thomas's Place, Hackney, east London, by a gang of youths who rode up on bikes. August 30 - Luke Howard, 16, is fatally stabbed after a party in Ashcombe Road, Old Swan, Liverpool. September 2 - Stephon Davidson, 19, dies in hospital of injuries sustained in a drive-by shooting in Monument Road, Birmingham, on August 5. September 5 - Courtney Eaton, 17, dies of stab wounds after a fight near a petrol station in Salford, Greater Manchester. September 7 - Dale Robertson, 18, dies after being stabbed in Rokeby Drive, Parson Cross, Sheffield, following a party. September 13 - Oliver Kingonzila, 19, dies in Croydon. south London, after being stabbed outside a bar in the early hours of the morning. September 26 - Craig Marshall, 19, dies in hospital nine hours after being stabbed near his home in Acton, west London. October 20 - Joseph Lappin, 16, dies after being stabbed outside Shrewsbury House Youth Club in Langrove Street, Everton, Liverpool. November 8 - Nabeer Bakurally, stabbed to death on High Road, Ilford, Essex, after an altercation with a group of men. November 11 - Kadeem Blackwood, 15, is shot dead as he walks along Caxton Street, Derby, with friends.