A respected campaigner against guns and knives who had the ear of young gang members as well as the Home Office has been found stabbed to death.Pat Regan's grandson, Rakeim Regan, 20, has been arrested in connection with the killing, and the unrelated stabbing of a railway worker.The body of Regan, who campaigned in schools and youth groups after two of her six sons were shot, one fatally, was discovered last night at her flat in Leeds.Rakeim Regan, who has been receiving treatment for mental health problems, is being held by West Yorkshire police on suspicion of murdering his grandmother. He is also being questioned about the attack on a 45-year-old man at Leeds railway station.Tearful neighbours and admirers left flowers and anguished messages yesterday on a grassy bank by the rundown flats where Pat Regan lived, near Leeds town hall. Dozens of teenagers scribbled messages such as "Why do bad things happen to good people?" and "You made a huge difference to many people, including us."The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, who met Regan several times to discuss anti-gun crime strategy, added to the tributes: "I am extremely shocked and saddened. I was greatly impressed with her dedication. She worked tirelessly and achieved a great deal, going into schools and educating young people on the dangers of joining gangs and carrying weapons. Her death is a great loss." Regan's fellow-founder of the pressure group Mothers Against Violence, Dee Edwards, said: "She was the most incredible woman. We just love her to bits — such an incredible lady, I can't take this in. She's open, she's honest, she's got a massive heart. She just helped so many people."Regan, who sat next to the then prime minister, Tony Blair, in Downing Street at a conference on gun crime last year, abandoned her life as a mother and part-time office worker when her son Danny was murdered six years ago. Danny had dropped out of school and became a drug dealer. He was shot on his doorstep in St Helen's, Merseyside, by suspected rivals who have not yet been found.One of her other sons was shot and wounded in a Leeds nightclub, which added to her determination to speak out. She caught young people's attention, lobbied the media and recruited others to MAV by calling with sympathy and offers of help on families of other young victims. Her eldest son Shane said: "She dedicated her life to stopping violence like this. She was one of the most genuine people you could ever meet. She died for what she believed in and what she was trying to stop. "All of the family helped her out as much as we could, because she was the best. She represented our family and she represented the struggle against violence."Neighbours and friends said that Regan's family problems were well-known. Another of her daughters also suffers from mental health problems. Lorraine Fraser, who had been due to take a petition to Downing Street with Regan calling for tougher sentence for violent crime, said: "She'd screamed out for help for that child, but because he was over 18, they wouldn't do anything. "She said to me: "If anything happens, you'll soon be down to help. And look - something has happened and everybody's too late." Fraser, whose own son was killed in a stabbing four years ago, said: "She was there to help me. She lifted me up, mother to mother, and told me to be strong. Something must be done to get the weapons off our streets. The people in government all sit at a round table and nod and agree and give you sympathy but why don't they do anything?"Forensic officers were at work in Regan's flat yesterday, hidden by plastic sheeting behind a police cordon. A tribute with flowers was left on behalf of another of her grandchildren, Kyle Regan, which said: "My wonderful grandmother. RIP Pat. Love and miss you always. Never forgotten."