Jail overcrowding is a "cancer" eating at the ability of the prison service to achieve its object of protecting the public from crime, the lord chief justice warned last night.Lord Woolf said prosecuting criminals to conviction achieved little, if any, protection for the public if the prison service was unable to deliver on its fundamental role. "What has gone wrong is overcrowding. I have no doubt that it is a central problem that makes progress virtually impossible," he said. "If you insist on trying to take in through the front door more prisoners than a prison can hold without letting the necessary number out of the back door, a prison will simply explode. This is what happened during the Strangeways series of riots. It is also possibly what happened at Lincoln last week." Speaking to judges and lawyers at Manchester town hall, Lord Woolf said the judiciary had to accept some of the blame. But there was a continuous upward pressure on sentences from public opinion, the media, and the government. Other factors included the far-reaching impact of decisions by parliament to increase the maximum sentence for a particular type of offence, which had a knock-on effect for related crimes. He said the punitive approach had been tried and had failed. A wider range of community penalties would enable courts to give offenders incentives to take part in drug rehabilitation, restora tive justice and other programmes geared to preventing reoffending. The government's criminal justice proposals provided "a vision of what might be achieved by diverting offenders from crime without burdening our prisons". But that vision depended on input from the probation service, and had no hope of being fulfilled unless the service was given much greater funding. Otherwise judges would shun community-based sentences. He said the present criminal justice system was counter-productive "because of the waste of public money, because of the effect it has on victims, witnesses and jurors who become caught up with the system and, most important of all, because it does not protect the public".