When two lifers near the end of their sentences walked out of Sudbury open prison on Wednesday, there were no wailing sirens or police dogs barking in the fog.Some of the prettiest countryside in the Midlands surrounds the open jail in Ashbourne, Derbyshire, whose inmates are prepared for resettlement, but its regular absconders show no inclination to hang around. "They don't go hiding in haystacks or farm barns," says Barbara Turner, out for a walk between Somersal Herbert and the quaint estate village of Sudbury, clustered round its 17th century National Trust hall.Locals can't recall a serious village search for any of the 665 inmates who have absconded without leave in the last 10 years. "What is there here for them?" says Leigh Gregory-Bateman, chairman of Sudbury parish council, which remains an island of calm amid the storm surrounding the prison's security. "If they do decide to go, they're most likely to head for friends or family. I think a lot abscond when they're away on leave anyway, and decide that Liverpool or Manchester is where they'd rather be."The loss of Duncan MacNeil and Paul Neale, who were both given life terms for murder in the early 1980s, follows a national row over two other lifers who have not been traced since failing to return to Sudbury in October and November. Jason Croft and Michael Nixon are also convicted murderers and that, along with their relatively young age - both are 28 - has given some locals pause."We used to have the idea that open prisons were for people who hadn't done anything that serious," said one older villager in Sudbury, whose senior citizens' club was entertained to lunch at the jail back in April. "But they don't seem to have been inside that long." He supports the Derby Evening Telegraph's billboards demanding a public inquiry, but for other neighbours the paper's sarcastic headline yesterday - Will the last one to leave please turn out the light? - falls flat."Yes, it's an issue when people who've done bad things, like murder or rape, are on the loose and the authorities don't seem to know," says one shop assistant, who doesn't want to give her name because prisoners and staff are regular, and friendly, customers. "But we all get on well, villages and prison, and they keep us in touch on the resettlement they're doing there. "I think most people round here understand the way an open place like Sudbury works." The fact that nearly a quarter of the 514 inmates are lifers near the end of their sentences and being tested for release is widely known, and an accepted reason why some of the men on the run were jailed for very serious crimes.The prison, converted in 1948 from an American air force hospital built in the mistaken expectation of large-scale US air force casualties at D-Day, is also holding its nerve. Business continues as usual at the farm shop by the guardhouse, where prison service parsnips, carrots and other veg are on sale at prices which don't undercut nearby shops too much. Morale has been helped by maintaining progress which was complimented in 2005 by the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers. She made a point of Sudbury's calm atmosphere compared to more volatile open jails, and success in holding down absconder numbers - compared, for instance, to Thorn Cross, near Warrington, and Kirkham near Blackpool, which lost 1172 and 1154 over the same 10-year period.Fed by several large-scale walkouts, however, Sudbury's notoriety took off last week when Derbyshire police were accused of failing to publish 'Wanted' posters for Croft and Nixon in case it breached their human rights. In fact, the decision was purely operational and based on the conviction that, like all the other Sudbury leavers, the pair would be miles away from rural south Derbyshire."They don't hang around here," says a spokesman for the force, which nonetheless has to build in regular 'Sudbury work' to its other commitments. Because the prison is the inmates' official home, and catching absconders is a police, not prison service matter, Derbyshire has to put out national alerts and request searches by other forces at family or friends' addresses."We got one back the other week who had gone straight to his Mum's," said the spokesman, whose uniformed colleagues keep an eye on Foston Hall women's prison, also near Sudbury, and liaise with Staffordshire police on two other jails just a few miles across the border. "We've quite a few prisons round here but that means a good level of policing," said Mr Gregory-Bateman, who works in car parts quality assurance when not chairing the parish council. "We've a lower rate of crime than a great many similar places."