A mother is being held on suspicion of attempted murder after her six-year-old daughter was stabbed in the chest.The girl suffered serious injuries in the incident at a property in Guildford, Surrey. Police have described her condition as comfortable and said she was "doing well".The girl's 44-year-old mother received stab wounds to her hand in the incident. She was arrested on suspicion of attempted murder along with her partner, a 28-year-old man, sources told the Press Association.Police were called to the two-storey end of terrace house on the Bellfields estate just after midnight when neighbours heard raised voices. The girl, named locally as Megan, was taken to the Royal Surrey County hospital.Adam Howlett, 35, who lives six doors away, said: "They are very quiet, normal people. I came in quite late and I heard raised voices from inside the house. I looked out of my window but I couldn't see anything. I then saw loads of police turning up. When I heard a girl had been stabbed I was shocked, very shocked. The girl was a little angel, a little princess. She's a happy girl who would play on the grass outside."Another resident, Julie Lester, 48, said the mother's boyfriend had moved in a few months ago. She said the mother had been estranged from the girl's father for more than a year. Lester said of the six-year-old: "She's lovely, a good girl and very bright. We would get together in the garden and do stuff."She denied the couple had a tempestuous relationship and was not aware of any instances of police being called.Two police officers stood guard outside the property as forensic officers worked inside.Another resident, Joanne McDermott, 27, a mother of two, said: "It's scary. When something like this happens so close to your own home it's worrying."Surrey police said: "The child, whose injuries are described as serious, and a 44-year-old woman who received stab wounds to her hand were taken to Royal Surrey county hospital where the child's condition is described as stable."A 28-year-old man and a 44-year-old woman have been arrested on suspicion of attempted murder and have been taken into custody."