The 1,500 most persistent teenage offenders in Britain will from this week be under round-the-clock surveillance and supervision, using the most sophisticated tagging technology, as part of Tony Blair's promise to introduce "zero tolerance of yob culture".The £45m programme developed by the government's youth justice board is designed to keep some of Britain's teenage tearaways out of custody and ensure that they get the most intensive programme of education and other activities to prevent them going on to become career criminals. It will include help with drug and alcohol abuse, mental health problems and support for their parents. They will also face the most rigorous supervision yet with their movements tracked 24 hours a day using electronic tagging combined with voice verification systems under which the teenagers will have to phone in from predesignated numbers to confirm their whereabouts. If they go out in the evenings or weekends they will have to be accompanied by youth justice staff. The first phase of the scheme is part of the government's package of reforms of the youth justice system which come into effect this week. It will cover 1,500 teenagers, mostly aged 15 and 16, in 22 of the most deprived parts of Britain. The new programme will be used for those offenders who have already been charged or warned at least four times in the previous 12 months and now face a serious threat of being locked up. "This new system of intensive supervision and surveillance programmes will cover the 3% of offenders who we believe commit a quarter of all offences," said the home secretary, Jack Straw. "They will supervise them closely, give them education and training, and oblige them to take part in intensive courses designed to change offending behaviour. He added: "We will now be able to make sure we know exactly where these offenders are and what they are doing when they are sentenced in the community." The second phase of the scheme covering a further 1,000 young offenders will begin in June. It will be backed up by two further youth justice schemes to be announced this week. The first will provide an extra £6m to youth inclusion programmes for 3,500 hard-to-reach youngsters who live on 70 of the worst high-crime housing estates. They will be aimed at giving the 50 most high-risk 13- to 16-year-olds on each estate at least 10 hours a week extra support. The programmes will include educational and cultural activities such as music DJ classes, graffiti art, basketball, martial arts and seminars on drugs, sex and healthcare. While these special programmes will only be open to those children most at risk of drifting into crime, they will be backed up by school holiday schemes open to all young people on each during the easter and summer breaks. The government is also expected to announce that it intends to double the average amount of education and training received by youngsters locked up by the courts, from 15 hours to 30 hours a week.Related articles Escape route from the mean streets