Shoplifting costs UK retailers an annual £4.4bn, with over a third of losses caused by employee theft, according to a report. The average shopper pays £180 a year extra to cover the cost to stores of combatting crime, according to the 10th annual survey into retail theft by the Centre for Retail Research.The average theft by a visiting shoplifter is £93 but criminally minded employees run off with a typical swag bag worth £1,988. At the top of the target theft list for both employee and customer criminals is alcohol – and in particular whisky, according to Professor Joshua Bamfield, author of the report.Opportunistic employees are responsible for thefts relating to cash, including taking money from tills to topping up loyalty cards or using credit cards fraudulently. All types of shoplifter are attracted most to branded goods because they are easy to sell on.Food is also a top target, with fresh meat and luxury-packaged meats often stolen either for personal use or to sell at bargain prices to willing food outlets such as a pubs.Stores are constantly devising methods to deter alcohol theft, such as adding security tags or asking shoppers to collect their chosen tipple at the till. Retailers invested £977m last year to help combat these rising crime figures, including investing in anti-theft technology, better supervision of staff and implementing software that can help spot fraudulent activity.The £12m a day price tag for vanishing goods means the average shopper pays £180 a year extra to cover the cost. But the overall cost of theft fell by 5.8% in the UK in the year to June 2010 following a spike in 2009 thought to be linked to the recession, suggested the report commissioned by retail security firm Checkpoint Systems.Bamfield said: "At one time it was razors because they are small and easy to sell on. But stores have tightened up security on these products which has pushed them into third place. Shaving products, perfume, skin oils leather goods and designer wear and small expensive items such as batteries can be sold on relatively easily.""Companies have had to up their game to beat this problem. A lot of the goods don't have a very high profit margin, so retailers have to sell a lot more to get back what has been lost. Many start with educating staff about the issue, explaining to them that pinching goods is not a perk of the job."Bamfield said employees' greed usually catches them out in the end. "They may start off taking £2 a week from the till, but after a few months start taking £50."