Judge Alex Calabrese does not use a gavel, so there is no satisfying crack of justice from the bench. He does not sit so high as to give a lordly impression of judicial severity, nor, with its fresh white paint, recessed lighting and gauzy window-blinds does the courtroom itself present the image of imposing authority. But the community court in Red Hook, Brooklyn, does not merely look contemporary - it also dispenses justice in a radical new way.Conceived by the centre for court innovation, a New York-based think-tank, the courthouse was, until two years ago, an abandoned school building filled with crack vials and homeless men. It is now home to an award-winning grassroots justice project that may show the way toward the re-invigoration of the criminal justice system in America. Two weeks ago, Home Secretary David Blunkett visited and was impressed enough to announce plans to support the development of similar courts in Britain. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, came too, and has been spreading the message of community justice. The Red Hook community court is not the first programme to try to tackle the symptoms of urban malaise by mixing punishment with problem-solving and prevention, but it is the first to offer a "one-stop shop"of social services seeking to make the connections between crime and its causes. Within its jurisdiction are low-level criminal cases, such as drug possession and prostitution, as well as family court and housing court cases. Community courts such as Red Hook pay close attention to offences that tend to be overlooked by criminal courts overwhelmed by more serious crimes. During the 90s, there was an explosion of low-level cases in New York as a result of then mayor Rudi Giuliani's zero-tolerance policing. But while the NYPD doubled in size, and arrests duly soared, the court system was not offered additional resources. The result, says Greg Berman, director of the centre for court innovation, was that overworked courts had no alternative but to get low-level offenders out of the system as quickly as possible. "There was no consequence to crime because you had people pleading guilty and leaving court with no sanction whatsoever. That sends the message to offenders and citizens that the justice system is just a set of revolving doors." But a prostitute or street dealer, say, hauled into Calabrese's court is not simply given a custodial sentence. Instead, the court looks into the underlying circumstances of the defendant's life. As three-quarters of all criminal cases in the borough are related to drugs and drug addiction, he will order defendants into drug treatment but may also impose some kind of community restitution. As Calabrese is the only judge on the bench, all defendants know they will come back before him if they fail to complete treatment or restitution. As a judge in a traditional court, he says, "many of the cases were frustrating because you knew that the answer was not jail or release but drug treatment that would stop the constant recidivism. I would send someone to jail with the belief that this person would be coming back because we hadn't got to the underlying problem. But if you get to the addiction, as we try to do here, it's better for the defendant, for the community and the court." Last week, the judge's docket was filled with exactly the kind of small-time, persistent crime that disproportionately affects the quality of life in a community such as Red Hook - graffiti, street dealing, prostitution, domestic violence. "These are not complicated legal cases," says Calabrese. "These are cases about people who lead complicated lives." Upstairs, above the courtroom, the Red Hook project offers a range of services that seeks to address the fundamental problems underlying drug addiction and poverty. Besides drug counselling and treatment, there are job placement programmes, mental health counsellors, family mediation services and domestic violence counselling, housing referrals, job-training, and child care facilities. "One of the reasons judges have been reticent about linking people to social services is because typically when they do the defendant is given a piece of paper to show up at a job-training programme in three weeks in a different neighbourhood," says Berman. "Of course, no one shows up. It's a very different message for the judge to send a defendant upstairs to enter a programme." Berman - who, with his colleague, director of operations, Adam Mansky, will work with the Home Office on the UK project - outlines the theory of community justice. "There is the notion of restorative justice - that communities can be harmed by crime, just as individuals are, and deserve to be restored - and the idea of therapeutic jurisprudence, the idea of linking people to social service interventions in an effort to deter and help them. "What brings it all together is the idea of problem-solving justice. We want to use a court case as a moment to address the underlying problems that bring someone to court. We want to use it as a window of opportunity." Although it is still too early in the programme to show a statistical reduction in recidivism, there are strong indications that the project has reduced crime and contributed to the revival of the area. When it was first introduced, there was considerable local scepticism; over the years Red Hook was the chosen venue for unpopular city services, such as rubbish transfer stations and methadone clinics. With 210,000 people within its jurisdiction, the project is helping to reinvigorate one of New York's most depressed and crime- infested areas. Now a force of local community activists, a spin-off from President Clinton's Americorp volunteer programme, organises offenders to do community service. For many, that's preferable to the alternative. "I chose this rather than spent a night in jail," says Edward, a young Hispanic man busted for possession of marijuana who is sweeping the courthouse car park. "It's cool that they give you options." But will it stop him smoking dope? "No." The Red Hook community justice programme is keen to stress that it is not soft on crime. The process of justice is not only designed to be more agile and immediate but also to afford better follow-up monitoring. "We track defendants very closely. If they get off-track, we issue a warrant for their arrest and bring them back to court very quickly," says Calabrese. "Communities understand that there will be serious crimes committed once in a while in any urban area but the crimes they constantly complain about are things like drug addicts breaking into cars. They want the courts to resolve those kinds of crimes, and the courts can't until you bring in the social services." A decade ago, Red Hook was named one of the 10 worst communities in the US after a school principal was killed in crossfire between rival drug gangs while out looking for a truant. But everyone involved in the justice project agrees that a community does not need to hit rock-bottom before the scheme can work and they strongly believe the model could be adapted to work in the UK. "I see programmes like this being successful everywhere," says court prosecutor Gerianne Abriano. "Sometimes the traditional prosecutorial practice works and you need to try a case and put people in jail. But in many instances you can do something different. It may not be a permanent rehabilitation, and you may not be saving the world, but you are chipping away and making a difference."