The psychopath Michael Stone remained free to kill because those supervising him were divided about his psychiatric condition, according to a report to be published tomorrow.Stone's murder of Lin Russell and her daughter, Megan, in Kent in 1996 horrified Britain and raised profound questions about how society deals with people suffering from serious mental health problems. Lin's other daughter, Josie, now 19, was also bludgeoned in the hammer attack, but survived.Tomorrow's 350-page report into Stone's psychiatric problems, which was completed six years ago but was withheld while the killer appealed against his convicton, is expected to highlight how social workers and mental health experts could not agree a diagnosis, due to the complexity of his illness.'Some thought he was paranoid, some a schizophrenic, some that he suffered from a psychotic personality disorder,' said a source familiar with the report. 'Because of the failure to agree, he slipped through the safety net. He was on a probation order when he really should have been sectioned under a hospital order.'Stone, 45, took legal action to keep the report secret. But a High Court ruling last July said it was in the public interest for the report to be published. It is expected to raise questions about the role of the Kent and Medway health authority, which treated Stone as an outpatient.Stone, a heroin addict, armed robber and police informant, had a long history of mental illness and harboured fantasies about killing. The report highlights how he experienced a psychotic episode in 1995, but was not admitted to care. He also told a psychiatric nurse he knew where he could obtain a shotgun. However, although this information was discussed with police, no action was deemed necessary.The report notes that in March 1996, three months before the killings, probation officers suggested Stone exhibited a 'high risk of offending' and warned that the threat was 'ever present'. Stone's mental health problems were exacerbated by his chronic drug dependency. The report identifies how in the mid-Nineties there were intense pressures on drug treatment agencies in the south-east. A prolific number of heroin users in Kent meant resources were overstretched, with the result that Stone did not receive the treatment he demanded. Although he repeatedly asked to be admitted to a hospital detoxification unit, it was decided to continue treating him as an outpatient on a methadone programme. Over a two-year period, probation officers noted that Stone regularly injected heroin while taking methadone, with the result that his moods were erratic and hard to monitor.At his trial in 1998, the jury heard how Stone made lists of people he was going to kill and had a history of violence. In 1981 he was jailed for two years for a hammer attack and robbery. In 1983 he stabbed a man in the chest. Three years later he carried out two armed robberies in Leeds.The Russell murders prompted calls for a controversial change to the law so that people with serious psychopathic disorders could be taken into compulsory care, even if mental health experts believed they would not benefit from treatment. But psychiatrists objected to what they described as a 'draconian' change which they claimed would turn them into jailers. The backlash prompted ministers to scrap the mental health bill last March. However, the government plans to amend existing laws so that psychiatrists can detain people indefinitely in mental hospitals, even if there is no cure for their condition.But those working in public protection said more still needed to be done. 'The situation now is as bad as it was in 1996, with mentally ill drug addicts often falling between agencies,' said one probation officer. 'What is needed is a multi-agency approach that focuses on a person's needs and provides a clear risk assessment.'The publication of tomorrow's report is likely to be welcomed by Josie and her father, Shaun, an academic who has devoted his life to caring for his daughter. In an interview in the Sun last July, Josie, who is now studying art and design, said she hoped the report would be made public. 'I know there is a book that is all about him and why things went wrong,' Josie said.'I hope the book will come out but I never think about him. There is nothing to think about. If he hadn't done what he did things would be different - that's all I think.'