It started in Green Bay, Wisconsin. On 1 August, witnesses reported a clown walking around with black balloons.At the end of that month, in Greenville, South Carolina, a clown tried to lure some kids into the woods. Four days later, in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, the same thing happened. On 6 September, local news in Greensboro, just up the road, reported that “a person wearing a scary clown mask, a red curly wig, a yellow dotted shirt, blue clown pants, and clown shoes” was chased off by a local with a machete. Things became wider, faster. A school was locked down in Flomaton, Alabama, after a clown made threats online. A middle school student in Athens, Georgia, was arrested for bringing a knife to school to protect herself from clowns. A gang of clowns robbed a fast food joint in Phoenix. By October, clowns had gone worldwide, with sightings in Edmonton, Canada and Melbourne, Australia. Someone recorded one riding a mobility scooter in Sheffield, UK. Last week, President Obama’s spokesman, Josh Earnest, was asked about the nasty clown epidemic. “I don’t know that the president has been briefed on this particular situation,” he replied. “Obviously, this is a situation that law enforcement is taking quite seriously.”Ben Radford, the author of the new book, Bad Clowns, isn’t surprised by these developments. “Clown panics”, as he calls them, have happened on and off since the 1980s. There was a minor outbreak in 2013, but not on the scale of what’s happening now. They proceed through copycat behaviour. And at a time when social and mainstream media are caught in a feedback loop of mutual amplification, they spread quickly. “Why wouldn’t it go viral?” he asks of the most recent scare. “It’s unnerving and funny at the same time.” But why are clowns scary? Radford says that sanitised, domesticated clowns like Bozo and Ronald McDonald obscure the fact that clowns have always been, at best, ambivalent figures. “Darker, more sinister currents and threads go back to the earliest versions of the clown. The clown has always been an ambiguous character. Clowns were never really good, so it’s not really accurate to ask when clowns turned bad. They never claimed to be good.”We can never be sure, when clowns are laughing, whether or not it’s at our expense. “The court jester was a figure who had license to speak ill of anyone including the king. The clown has always had a license to say things that are impolitic or rude.”If we look at them over the long term, Radford explains in his book, they’re less like the benevolent figure of hamburger ads and birthday parties, and more like the trickster archetype, a category that Radford points out includes the devil. Clowns have long associated with bad behaviour. Punch, the British figure of folklore and street theatre, is a “wife-beating, mass-murdering infanticidal monster”. Pagliacci murdered his wife in costume. And in The Pickwick Papers, Dickens presented a clown whose private life was one of alcoholic dissipation. Only later, especially in the USA, did “the happy, good polite clown become the clown that we all recognise.” More recently, writers and filmmakers in the horror genre saw an opportunity to restore the balance. “People like Stephen King took that character on its head, but really he was picking up the threads of the earlier, scary clown.”Beyond this history, there’s something viscerally confronting about seeing a clown in makeup. “The most obvious thing that is unnerving is the mask. Their human features are hidden, and instead this grotesque version of human features is there.” The makeup, designed for the big top, does not always come off well in face to face encounters. “The intent isn’t to be frightening, but it is, especially close up. Masks help hide identity and strip away information that we use to read people. Suddenly, you’re dealing with a masked stranger near you, and possibly near your kids.”We tend to want our clowns to be cordoned off, for safety.Clown sightings: the day the craze began “We like our clowns in very specific, socially prescribed contexts,” like circuses, birthday parties, or rodeos. “If you see a clown walking around your street late at night, there’s no context for that. It’s boundary violation that creeps people out.”Especially when seen in a suburban street, clowns also perhaps violate or blur the distinction between the real and the imaginary. The suit and the mask obliterate the individual we rationally know to be underneath them. Suddenly, a figure of fantasy walks among us.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Ronald McDonald forced to lie low amid global clown terrorThe ageless conventions of the clown costume also give those who wear them a share of deathlessness. People are submerged in an identity that never ages or passes. Caught unawares, we might fleetingly understand them as not entirely mortal. And embedded in any such experience is a bitter foretaste of our own inevitable death. “It’s a human being but they have properties that are inhuman”, is how Radford puts it. And experiences of the inhuman and the uncanny can lead people to do rash things. Radford is “more concerned about the public’s overreaction” than the clowns themselves. And indeed, there have been incidents of people using weapons in their clown encounters, or arming themselves on the off chance that they’ll have one. We should turn away from such paranoia, and instead try, while the craze lasts, to embrace the archetype in all its ambiguity. Because a dead clown is no laughing matter. 