A multi-agency raid took place at a market in Manchester as police and trading standards officers seized fake branded clothing, jewellery and DVDs.There was a moment of drama at Conran Street Market in Harpurhey, as a man tried to evade arrest. He managed to run out of the market and was chased into a nearby street, where he was arrested on suspicion of selling counterfeit DVDs."What've you arrested me for?" he repeated as he was handcuffed and placed in a police van. "You've not read me my rights."Officials from the UK Border Agency and trading standards were involved in Operation Cove on Tuesday morning, when the market was bustling with shoppers. At a fruit and vegetable stall, they carried on shouting for shoppers to buy bananas while the raid was under way.Six vehicles were seized for not having road tax or insurance. Sniffer dogs searched the market for tobacco. The market has been running for 80 years and some of the stalls are in a dilapidated condition. Razor wire surrounds the market.The operation was coordinated by police in north Manchester who say they acted on intelligence that illegal activity was taking place there.Inspector Gareth Parkin, who was leading Project Cove, said: "It's important to carry out operations like this because counterfeit goods fund criminal gangs."It was a very worthwhile operation and we have seized clothes, jewellery, DVDs and tobacco.""Counterfeit goods are not a victimless crime – these organisations are making thousands of pounds." He said they'd received complaints from residents about illegal activity on the market.As trading standards officials searched the market, a shopper tried to buy a counterfeit DVD and asked the price. "The stall's closed," they told her, as they placed counterfeit CDs into an evidence bag. Some of the stallholders abandoned their stalls once the police arrived.Police said there had been two arrests.In the covered section of the market, a stallholder was grumbling that it was a fire hazard having the doors locked during the raid."Get the fake Tiffany bracelets out," said a man as the police and officials left the market after an hour of searches.