The open justice principle means that criminals should be named - it is part of the deterrent. And, in exceptional circumstances, children can be named - to encourage the others to behave. More recently, courts have even been facilitating the free flow of information, allowing the tabloids to expose the sex lives of BBC presenters and footballers as well as to highlight corruption, crime and bad practice. In libel law, truth is a defence. The laws of confidentiality give way to public interest. We are allowed to know more about the courts and celebrities than ever before. Apart from one tiny group - the celebrity killer. Mary Bell was 11 when convicted in 1968 of the manslaughter of two boys, aged four and three, in Newcastle. In February 1993, Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, both then aged 10, killed two-year-old James Bulger, in Liverpool. The facts and circumstances of the deaths were particularly shocking and were widely publicised at the time. Photographs of the three killers were published. They became celebrities. There is a surprisingly small group of notorious killers. The Kray twins, Myra Hindley and Ian Brady, Peter Sutcliffe, Rose West and a few more. In many people's view, Bell, Venables and Thompson are in that class of super criminal. The Rehabilitation of Offenders Act of 1974 essentially allows those with "spent" convictions to consider themselves free of their past misdemeanours. They can, accordingly, claim to be of good character when applying for a job. But the media are allowed to publish details of convictions as long as they are relevant. But before the courts at the moment are lawyers representing Mary Bell and her teenage daughter seeking permanent anonymity. Previous injunctions banning publication of the identities of daughter and mother (as her "carer") ended earlier this year when the girl turned 18. Bell was released in 1980 after 12 years, but regained notoriety in 1998 when she was paid by the author Gitta Sereny to cooperate in the book Cries Unheard, serialised in a national paper. The media coverage led to the daughter discovering her mother's true identity. The attorney general looked into Bell's profiting from past crimes but could not act as the Proceeds of Crime Act 1995 stops criminals from cashing in on misdeeds, but only for six years after the crime.The court has been told that she and her daughter live together and that the daughter is a normal, happy woman leading a law-abiding life. Her barrister claims the pair require protection from the risk of attack, for their life to be private and the rehabilitation of the mother. Mary Bell seeks the same protection granted last year to Venables and Thompson, who had reached 18. They had been named because the public interest overrode the interest of the defendants in anonymity and the public were entitled to know about their background. After conviction, their new identities were protected to facilitate rehabilitation. They wanted an injunction to prevent publication of current (ie, grown up) pictures, their new identities and addresses. Secrecy Orders were granted on the basis that "their case is exceptional". But the Mary Bell case is very similar. The court in both cases said, rightly, that these crimes were committed by children rather than hardened criminals. To an extent they may have been victims, too. It was pointed out to the court that hard cases make bad law. But a one-off could become the norm. Many others have committed such terrible crimes that their lives could arguably be at risk when released. They, too, will feel entitled to protection. Should Myra Hindley be released, she would also be entitled, under these principles, to enjoy a quiet life in protected obscurity. These court orders would not, ironically, be available to less well-known criminals. It has not been suggested that Bell, Venables or Thompson would reoffend - but if they did the public would never hear of it. No one wants those who have paid the price for their crimes to be lynched but, despite the fears raised by the lawyers representing our celebrity criminals, this has never happened. It is rare for trial judges to allow the naming of children. They must have committed terrible crimes for this to happen. It seems bizarre that the notoriety given to killer children should entitle them to far more protection than that given to less famous criminals. The courts will have to ensure these luxury orders remain rare rather than a perk of perversity. A court refused to grant secrecy for the home address of Lady (Paul) McCartney, but it may have to do so for Rosemary West. Tinkering with the principle of open justice can have surprising effects. ·  Duncan Lamont is a media partner at city solicitors Charles Russell