The man accused of murdering the TV presenter Jill Dando kept a notebook that listed the names of TV and film stars and models including a column for home addresses, the Old Bailey heard today.Barry George, who denies shooting Dando through the head on the doorstep of her home in Fulham, west London, in April 1999, had recorded the names of two James Bond actors in the book, the jury was told.The 48 year-old had written down the names of Britt Ekland, who appeared in The Man with the Golden Gun, and the former Olympic gymnast and television presenter, Suzanne Dando, who was in the Octopussy cast. There were also references to television presenters Fiona Foster and Caron Keating. Foster and Keating were among other female presenters George photographed as they appeared on television. The court has already heard that the defendant took more than 4,000 pictures of women.Prosecutor Jonathan Laidlaw QC said pictures of women in BBC clothing and television crews with a female assistant or presenter at work were found on rolls of undeveloped film at George's flat.The prosecution alleges George, who was previously tried for Dando's murder in 2001, had a fascination with female celebrities and guns and he stalked women. Laidlaw said entertainment pages were found in the defendant's flat detailing personal appearances by stars, some of which had been underlined. There were also business cards from female television presenters and BBC employees, as well as publications with articles about Dando. These included a local newspaper which made it clear she lived in Fulham. A photograph of Dando, 37, and her doctor fiance, Alan Farthing, had been torn from a newspaper published after her death, the court heard. Two handwritten notes from George had been found in which he expressed his regret at her death. One ended: "For that reason, I took it upon myself to lay flowers at her doorstep on behalf of the fellowship of the Baptist church." Laidlaw said the material was "evidence of the defendant's interest in celebrities and the BBC, news stations and female newscasters and presenters". Other publications and items found in George's flat, 500 yards from Dando's four-bedroom Victorian house, showed his fascination with guns, it was alleged. Two photographs showed him holding guns – in one he was wearing a military-style respirator; the other showed him dressed in camouflage gear. A year after the murder, George was kept under surveillance by police for three weeks before his arrest, it was revealed.Laidlaw said he had "frequently approached women" and had been followed to two BBC buildings in the Wood Lane area of west London. When he was seen by police, George had been clean-shaven but had grown a thick goatee beard and moustache by the time he was asked to take part in identification parades, the prosecutor said.The case continues.