A badly blunted surgical knife belonging to an eminent Victorian surgeon is at the centre of a row over the identity of Jack the Ripper.A new book claims that the man behind the murders of five London prostitutes in 1888 was Sir John Williams, a friend of Queen Victoria and obstetrician to her daughter, Princess Beatrice, and his surgical knife was the murder weapon.Williams founded the National Library of Wales in the early 1900s, donating his personal collection of 25,000 books. A number of his personal items including the knife, several tissues samples and diaries are kept there and have, until now, been available to the public on request.The mystery of the murders has become a multi-million-pound industry. The women were killed with surgical precision and their sexual and internal organs removed, leading to speculation the killer must have had extensive medical knowledge.There have been more than 20 suspects in the frame including Queen Victoria's grandson Prince Albert Victor, the artist Walter Sickert and a Liverpudlian merchant named James Maybrick. Williams has never before been named as a suspect. The publication of the book has sent shockwaves through the historical and medical community and has caused outrage among Ripper enthusiasts.The book, Uncle Jack, is written by one of the surgeon's descendants, Tony Williams. 'I didn't set out to find the Ripper,' Williams told The Observer. 'I simply wanted to look into the life of one of my ancestors, my grandmother's great, great uncle. He kept detailed diaries of everything that he saw and did. When I started looking through the 1888 diaries, I found several pages had been torn out. As I started looking into his background more and more, the evidence that he was Jack the Ripper started to mount up.'Williams worked at several London hospitals including the Whitechapel Workhouse Infirmary. All five victims had been treated there at some point and, according to the book, Williams was practising there on the weekends when the murders took place. Among the documents Tony Williams discovered was a letter dated 8 September 1888 in which the surgeon apologises to a friend for cancelling an appointment because he had to attend a clinic in Whitechapel.The body of Annie Chapman, the Ripper's second victim, was found on the night of 8 September. Williams ended his medical career and returned to his native Wales around the time of the last Ripper murder. Incisions on the victims' bodies match the dimensions of the surgical knife.'I believe that knife, which still rests at the National Library of Wales, may contain clues to the Whitechapel murders. If that knife could be examined using modern DNA techniques maybe there would be links to some of the victims,' says Williams.A spokesman for the library said they were unable to comment as they had not yet reviewed all the evidence. Its president, Dr Brinley Jones, is set to issue a statement next week. In the meantime, the knife and other possessions will be made available to registered readers, holding a current reader's ticket, as part of the Sir John Williams collection in the library. A small exhibition on Williams will open shortly and will be accessible to all library visitors.Williams believes his book is particularly controversial because it offers strong evidence, the last thing that anyone involved in the Ripper industry actually wants. At least two or three books on the case are released each year, there are hundreds of websites dedicated to the mystery and there have been countless films about the murders. A solution to the puzzle would render most of this material redundant.American writer Patricia Cornwell, famed for her series of novels featuring the forensic pathologist Dr Kay Scarpetta, spent three years and more than $6 million researching the case before naming Sickert as the murderer. Part of the money was spent on purchasing 31 works by the artist, one of which she had cut up for forensic tests. Her theory was widely dismissed by Ripperologists.Williams's co-author, Humphrey Price, believes that despite having come across a definitive solution, the mystery is set to endure. 'There are a hardcore of people throughout the world who will always be interested. There are people who live and die the Ripper. I sometimes wonder whether they want the crime to be solved.'Along with Cornwell's controversial work, the most hotly disputed theory is that naming Maybrick. A diary, alleged to be that of Maybrick, and containing his confession to the gruesome killings, was made public in the early 1990s. But it has failed to convince most of the leading Ripper authors.Next week, a new theory will be released by Trevor Marriott, a former murder squad detective with Bedfordshire police, who has devoted years of research to the case, applying modern policing techniques to the evidence. He believes the killer was a merchant seaman who caught a venereal disease from a prostitute and went on a killing rampage in revenge.