It was the courage of two little boys in detailing the horrific abuse they had suffered that proved key in convicting the mother and civil partner of a two-year-old boy with his murder.Liam Fee’s mother, Rachel Trelfa (or Fee), 31, and her civil partner, Nyomi Fee, 29, had denied killing the toddler and falsely accused another child in their care of causing the death.Liam was found dead at his home near Glenrothes in Fife on 22 March 2014, having suffered a ruptured heart as a result of severe blunt force trauma. The couple were convicted of all eight charges they faced – in addition to the murder charge, they were found guilty of assaulting Liam over a period of more than two years prior to his death. The jury also convicted them of four charges detailing a string of abuses against two other boys, who cannot be named for legal reasons.Following the couple’s conviction, police revealed the “complex and challenging” investigation that involved interviewing the two primary school-age children – who were both present in the house on the night that Liam died – to establish the level of abuse and neglect to which they and Liam had been subjected.Praising the boys’ courage, DI Rory Hamilton of Police Scotland’s major investigation team east said: “Details of Liam’s murder and the abuse carried out by the two women emerged during the course of interviews with two other boys in their care.”“During joint interviews with specially trained detectives and officials from Fife council, the evidence began to build towards a picture of horrendous abuse which directly contributed to the version of events being put forward by the two accused being utterly discredited.”During the seven-week trial at the high court in Livingston the jury heard how the couple immediately tried to shift the blame for Liam’s death on to one of the other children in the house, telling a 999 operator that he had strangled the toddler.James Graham, an ambulance technician who was first to attend at the couple’s home within minutes of the emergency call, told the jury that Nyomi Fee had shouted at another young boy: “You tell these men what you’ve done.”Graham added: “He just stood there with a look to say, ‘I don’t know what I’ve done but it must be bad.’”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Liam Fee, who was found dead at his home near Glenrothes in Fife on 22 March 2014. Photograph: Police Scotland/PAThe two women, originally of Ryton, Tyne and Wear, were also found guilty of a catalogue of abuse against Liam and the two other boys.Paediatric pathologist Dr Paul French told the court that Liam almost certainly spent his last few days in agony after finding fractures to the boy’s upper arm and thigh, likely sustained in separate events in the hours and days before he died. He listed more than 30 external injuries found on the toddler’s body, most of them “in keeping with blunt force trauma”. In evidence consistent with the pathologist’s findings, the court also heard how mobiles belonging to the two accused were used to carry out internet searches on subjects such as “how do you die of a broken hip?” and “how long can you live with a broken bone?” The jury learned of the relentless level of painful and degrading abuse endured by the children as they listened to more than 20 hours of recorded interviews conducted separately with the surviving boys. The jury heard one boy explain that he was not allowed to get up to go to the toilet during the night. This meant that he would sometimes wet the bed, which would result in him being made to stand under a cold shower as punishment. He later described how he had been tied to a locked homemade cage during the night, with his hands and feet bound with cable ties. He said his hands would swell up and that he was called “pudding hands” by Fee. The second boy said he was once made to spend a whole day in a cold shower, drip drying in between. He said Fee had tied him naked to a chair and left him alone all night in a dark room which also contained snakes and rats in boxes. The boy, who said that he was scared of the dark, said the snakes included a boa constrictor which he was told “eats naughty little boys”. The court also heard that concerns had been raised by nursery staff and neighbours about Liam’s treatment on three separate occasions over the year prior to his death. Defence QC Mark Stewart told the court there had been “ongoing social work awareness and contact with the family” from January 2013 through to the time that the toddler died, none of which resulted in action being taken against the couple.DI Hamilton concluded that the surviving two young boys were now “thriving”, attending school and “doing really well”. During a police interview, one of the boys was asked to explain why he liked superhero films so much. “The good guys always win,” he replied.