Police are investigating possible grudges at a front-running village in the annual Britain in Bloom contest, whose displays have been devastated by a poisoner using banned weedkiller.Organisers of the lavish flower beds at Cayton on the Yorkshire coast between Scarborough and Filey have been told by detectives that the care and planning of the attack smacks less of vandalism than a "calculated and malicious act".Thirty separate sites in the picturesque village have been targeted, with prize plants treated with sodium chlorate, which was withdrawn from shops last year as too toxic for garden use. Plants have been left wilting and blackened, with an estimated bill of £20,000 to replace 200 tonnes of polluted soil if the bid for floral glory is still to have a chance this year.Detectives are also checking back to a similar attack seven years ago at Saltburn-by-the-Sea, 40 miles up the coast, where the poisoner behind a similar crippling attack was never found. Organisers at the Teesside resort, which was also a likely medal winner, always suspected an inside job by someone jealous of the high-profile committee.Cayton's rapid rise to finalist in this year's large village section of Britain in Bloom began only in 2002, the year before the Saltburn poisoning, but has seen locals join in enthusiastically. The village won silver gilt awards in 2006 and 2008 and has steadily increased participants.Les Hutchinson, chairman of Cayton in Bloom, said: "The whole village is devastated by what has happened, We are a very close-knit community. Why on earth would you devastate the whole village?"He said that villagers noticed white powder granules on display beds at the same time as plants began to wilt and lose their colour to scorching. The poison had been laid by someone with gardening experience who knew what they were doing, he said. Few plants were unaffected.Hutchinson agreed that entering competitions might put some people off or cause jealousy, but said: "We raise money to do the work and we just work in the village and do the best we can for the whole environment, improving it for the community and visitors."A spokesman for North Yorkshire police said: "Someone out there knows who is responsible. Please, do the right thing and report them, either direct to the police or anonymously via Crimestoppers." Names were suggested in Saltburn, where a local farmer's water bowser is thought to have been spiked with weedkiller, but evidence was never found.The Teesside town was inundated with offers of help and replacement stock, including 250 new hanging baskets to add to its traditionally inventive displays, including ships and a miniature version of the famous pier.Cayton is determined to bounce back, said Hutchinson, provided funds can be raised."It will cost a lot of money, as we have to remove tons of soil," he said. "But we are still competing and the competition judges are aware of what has happened."Samples of the powder and contaminated soil have been analysed at the government's Food and Environment Research Agency laboratories near York, which has confirmed the use of sodium chlorate. The poison lingers in beds, further damaging Cayton's prospects of a comeback.Roger Burnett, manager of countryside and parks for Scarborough council, who is also chair of the Royal Horticultural Society's Britain in Bloom judging panel, called the attack an "affront". He said that the whole village had been targeted, not just the organisers of the displays, in an attack on "the very environment we all live in".