Just after 4am the four girls were doing what thousands of others of revellers were doing all over Britain. After five hours of hectic partying Charlene Ellis, 18, her twin sister Sophie and their two cousins Latisha Shakespear, 17, and Cheryl Shaw, 17, had gone outside to get some air.So far their night had been in no way extraordinary. The party, in the Unisevens Studios hairdressers on Birmingham's Birchfield Road, had got going around 9pm. Midnight had gone. A neighbour, a student teacher, had complained about the thumping garage music. The rain had stopped. Dawn and the new year were breaking. At 4.12am neighbours heard seven shots ring out, then a pause, then the rattle of automatic gunfire. Who fired and why is still unknown. Police believe the shots came from up to three weapons and may have been fired from cars. The screaming started almost immediately. In the four minutes it took the police to reach the scene three-quarters of the partygoers had fled. Slumped on the tarmac at the back of the hairdressers, beneath the graffiti on the brick-and-concrete wall, Charlene, hit in the head, and Latisha, shot in the chest, were bleeding to death. Beside them were their two friends, one badly injured, one shot in the hand. Little progress has been made in identifying the killers despite £35,000 in rewards offered. Few wit nesses have come forward. But what is certain is that the 30 9mm bullets fired did not hit their intended targets. There was nothing in the background of any of the girls to suggest they would die violently - other than where they lived. The Ellis twins, and their cousin Latisha, attended the local Josiah Mason College of Further Education. Latisha wanted to be a singer. All three enjoyed music and clothes, were involved in community projects run by the local church and had sung in the church choir. 'They were party girls,' said one friend. 'Always up for a laugh and socialising. You could always count on them if you wanted to go out.' Latisha lived with her mother in a redbrick semi-detached house in Nechells, Birmingham. Although the area is run down, the Shakespears' house is immaculate. The family had moved to Birmingham from Nottingham six years ago: Latisha worked weekends in a hairdresser that her mother, 36-year-old Marcia, had opened. No one in the family had any connection to the violence that has become a feature of life for residents: they were simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. In September, a local shopkeeper was killed with a machete. Last month Ayub Qureshi, 48, died after being stabbed in a dispute over parking in Freer Street - yards from last week's attack. There have been a string of shootings, some in daylight. West Midlands police say local gun crime has risen by more than 49 per cent since 2000, reaching a total of 2,240 incidents in 2001-02. Between April and October last year there were 33 'black-on black' gun attacks in Birmingham, echoing a trend which has seen gun crime rise by more than 40 per cent in four years in the UK. In Birchfield Road, locals have no doubt about what causes the violence. Fergie, 20, told The Observer: 'It is all about drugs here. Cannabis, heroine and E, you name it, you can buy it from the back of a shop. We knew it was coming, dealers come from everywhere and start doing business here.' The dealers are connected to rival gangs. The two most prominent are the Burger Bar Boys and the Johnson Crew, though whether the names are labels attached by police to more disorganised criminal groups is unclear. The front line between the gangs' 'turf' lies on the street where the girls died. The gangs, local 'homeboys' linked to gangs in Manchester and Scotland, model themselves on the ultra-violent Yardies, the Caribbean-based criminals whom many blame for introducing gun culture into the UK in the early Nineties. West Midlands police Iaunched Operation Ventara last September to combat the violence, prompting 57 arrests for gun-related crime and the recovery of 92 illegal firearms. In Manchester, Operation Goodwood saw armed officers patrolling inner-city areas in flak jackets, carrying Heckler and Koch submachine guns, while in London, the Metropolitan Police's Operation Trident has tripled the clearup rate for the 'black on black' gun crime it targets. Figures on gun crime to be released on Thursday will suggest they are fighting a losing battle, not least because witnesses are often frightened to come forward. The armed guard on the two surviving Birmingham girls' hospital beds is a chilling reminder of the threat of retaliation. DI Chris Pretty, who leads Ventara in Birmingham, said boys as young as 14 were carrying guns: 'There are firearms in the hands of very inexperienced criminals. Guns have become a fashion accessory for some of the homeboys. It is not just a Yardie thing any more.' 'The homeboy gangs originally lived off the scraps of the Yardie drug-dealing but have now grown up. They've had 10 years' experience of the culture, developed an association with firearms and probably successfully walked away from Birmingham Crown Court.' Killing women could boost prestige among the most violent gangs, senior officers said. 'It shows just how bad you are,' said one. Some see the roots of the problem in the celebration of guns in music and film. Two members of the So Solid Crew, the rap band, have faced firearms charges in the past year. Singer Asher D was jailed for 18 months for possessing a gun. Two years ago, the Home Office warned in a submission to a Commons inquiry on firearms that the celebration of guns in film 'may encourage weak-minded people to seek to obtain firearms as a means of bolstering their self-esteem'. The Lethal Weapon films made the 9mm Beretta used by Mel Gibson popular. Dirty Harry inspired a taste for .44 Magnum. Black gangster films such as the Boys N The hood and Colors did the same for the Uzi and its smaller, more powerful cousin, the Mach 10. SAS books and war films have kept the 9mm Browning and the Glock 17 at the top of the gangster wish list. Previously such weapons could be stolen from legitimate owners or bought from corrupt dealers. But clampdowns in the wake of the Dunblane killings make 'real' guns difficult to obtain, police experts say, so most weapons used in firearms incidents are imitation guns converted for real use, or restored 'deactivated' weapons. Post-Dunblane, the number of imitation guns sold in the UK has doubled: Asher D's gun was a converted Brocock, a .22 air pistol adapted for use with real ammuntion. An Observer reporter was able to buy a Brocock ME38 Magnum legally for £105 last week. Manufactured as a precision air pistol for legal target practice, for £70 underworld armourers can modify the gun to fire lethal ammunition. It can be modified to fire heavy .38 ammunition, but anybody over 17 can buy one without a licence. PolIce have campaigned for years to have the gun banned. Converted Brocock Magnums account for more than half of the gun seizures in London and have been used in shootings in Manchester, Bristol, Strathclyde, and Birmingham. In Nottingham last year, police seized 12 Brocock ME38s, altered to fire live bullets. It took The Observer reporter less than 10 minutes to locate a shop in Enfield, Middlesex, that had one for sale. A sign on the door of the shop, G Matthew's, which stocks a range of air pistols that look exactly like Colts, Smith and Wesson and Walther PPKs, warned: 'No more than two schoolchildren will be allowed in the shop at any one time.' Asked which guns are converted to fire live ammunition, the young assistant pointed to the Brocock Magnum and another gun firing blanks. He explained that because the Brococks are made so well, using metal parts, they can withstand being fired with live ammunition. The other gun, he said, could shatter or explode in the firer's hands. The assistant said he had no idea where it was possible to get such guns converted and there is no suggestion the shop was involved in illegal activity. As he was talking, two teenagers in hooded tops wandered over to the gun cabinet, one bragging that he had just bought a gun that fired blanks. Gary Silcock, Brocock managing director, said: 'Until we are told to stop importing them by the Government or the police we will continue. This is a perfectly legal and legitimate business.' Imitation guns are often used to intimidate or impress. Several London schools have introduced rules for pupils carrying imitation firearms, including instant expulsion for brandishing them inside the classroom and suspension for being caught on the premises with them. 'It's mainly the 13- and 14-year-olds who carry them,' one teacher said. 'Once they get older than that, they want real ones.' 'Twenty or 30 years ago, a gun was [just] a tool of the trade,' retired gangster Dave Courtney told The Observer. 'You carried it while you were working, used it only if you were brave enough and felt you had no option, then stashed it when you were finished. These days, the kids stick them down the backs of their trousers just to go out clubbing. The first sign of trouble, they whip it out. And they shoot first because they know that more than likely, the other guy is going to be tooled up as well. 'From burglars and muggers to pimps and fences. everyone wants a gun. Even kids standing on market stalls selling five quid bags of grass, half of them are tooled up too.' Another problem is 'deactivated' guns, which can be 'reactivated' by skilled people. Police estimated in 2000 there were already 120,000 deactivated weapons in private hands, while 96 per cent of submachine guns recovered by police were reactivated. Uzis, Mach 10s and the Ingrams machine pistol, which can fire up to 10 rounds a second, are easily restored to full working order. In the mid-nineties, dozens of petty criminals set themselves up as underworld armourers, hiring guns out, but weapons are now so widely available the trend is dying out. 'The rule was always that if the gun was fired, then the renter lost their deposit and had to get rid of it themselves,' one former armourer, 'Chris', said. 'Back then people didn't fire their guns, they just used them to scare people. Now they get fired all the time, sometimes just because people want to try them out or they're in a club and they want to salute the DJ or MC.' Police intelligence sources confirm that the flow of genuine firearms has increased. In the past month, several major seizures, including one of 20 Uzis, have been made at British ports. Most come from the Balkans, via Amsterdam, in deals brokered by Albanian gangs. Experts speak of 600,000 guns 'loose' in the Balkan region. Balkan criminals, along with the Turks and Kurds, who fought a pitched battle in north London recently, are gaining a reputation for being as violent as any 'Yardie' gangs. The latest spate of gun killings has put the Government under pressure, with Home Secretary David Blunkett due to announce tomorrow plans for a five-year minimum sentence for possession. In March, Diane Abbott, the outspoken Labour MP for Hackney North, urged Blunkett to introduce the sentence as a deterrent to young men who thought it cool to carry a 'piece'. A spokeswoman for the Home Secretary said Blunkett had been impressed with Abbott's arguments, backed by John Stevens, the Metro politan Police Commissioner. 'There are good reasons for considering a five-year penalty, but any mandatory sentence has to be part of a larger strategy to combat gun crime,' she said. But, although senior police officers remain opposed to the routine arming of the force, the Met confirmed last week that it was extending the use of permanent armed patrols from Haringey, the focus of the violence between the Kurdish and Turkish communities, to other problem boroughs. Beat officers are concerned by their vulnerability in the increasingly violent climate. Dave Rodgers of the Metropolitan Police Federation said: 'A baton and handcuffs are no match for a gun. Traditionally, routine arming of the police has not been welcomed in the past by our members, but we would have to review that if the escalation continues.' This will be cold comfort for three families in central Birmingham. Latisha Shakespear's grandmother told The Observer: 'We just can't understand how two innocent girls who went out to enjoy themselves get shot.'