Drivers on the Isle of Man are being confronted by the new face of British policing: fake plastic cops.In an effort to trick drivers into slowing down, local inspectors have constructed life-size plastic cut outs of stern-faced officers with laser speed guns.Supported by a hidden metal frame, the photographic models are left all day at accident hot spots. Real police officers move them around from time to time so that their location does not become common knowledge.Officers expect that the cut outs, dubbed PC Flat, will save time and money for the 243 real law enforcers who police the island's 80,000 residents."This is a way of increasing our coverage and freeing up officers to do other work," said Inspector Simon Lowe, who built the first cut out in his own likeness."We have what from the outside looks like small demands, but if there's a murder, it is dealt with in the force of 243 people," added the inspector. "We have a broad spectrum of police work to deal with and there are always more demands than we can answer."The first two models - the one featuring Mr Lowe and another of a female colleague - cost £700 to produce. Officers hope to expand the scheme by constructing models of other local cops. "It's a sensible use of resources," said Mr Lowe."A one off payment of £350 for one of these models is an excellent use of resources compared to paying an officer to sit there doing laser week by week."Local reaction has been quite positive. "The big risk starting this was that people wouldn't take it seriously," explained Mr Lowe. "Speed enforcement has never been popular with the public because it is seen as an underhanded way of raising revenue. But this is obviously not revenue raising, so we're getting a positive response because people trust that we're working towards road safety."Three taxi drivers spoken to by GuardianUnlimited knew of the scheme and agreed it had helped reduce speeding. "Oh yeah I've seen 'em!" said Harry Bridson of Ronaldsway Taxis. "What they tend to do is stick them just off the road by small villages with lower speed limits. I see the guy, look at my speedo and slow down."Mr Lowe said he has suffered a little teasing since his plastic double appeared. "It's obviously been a source of internal amusement," he admitted, "but it's a deadly serious issue."