The US-UK extradition treaty is balanced, helping both the United Kingdom and the United States eliminate safe havens for criminals while protecting the rights of our citizens. There are, however, several myths about the treaty that have come to be accepted as fact in the UK. Because the treaty is a key law enforcement tool for both our countries, it is important to separate fact from fable.The most widely repeated myth is that the treaty favours the US. A week ago, the Guardian ran three separate articles which included this charge an editorial "Hardline unpopulism", a blog by Henry Porter and an article by Jon Ronson. The myth of imbalance rests on two misconceptions: that the US requires a much higher standard of evidence to grant extradition than UK; and that the US is more likely to refuse extradition requests than the UK. Neither is true.Many UK critics claim the US requires prima facie evidence from the UK to grant extradition. We do not. US and UK evidence standards are based on reasonableness and are closely comparable in practice. The information and documentation required by both countries includes: an arrest warrant, identification information, and information describing the alleged criminal conduct committed by the fugitive-defendant.It is not difficult for UK prosecutors to meet this standard, as the record bears out. Since the 2003 Extradition Act went into effect at the start of 2004, the US has not refused a single UK extradition request. The UK, on the other hand, has denied US requests.The assertion that the US is more likely to deny extradition than the UK is false. It is based on a faulty 2009 analysis of the extradition data. Rather than compare UK denials to US denials, the study compared UK denials to the number of UK extradition requests that have not yet been resolved, which is not the same thing. As I've noted, the US has not refused a single UK extradition request since the act went into effect.UK and US citizens are well protected under our extradition relationship. No one can be extradited for conduct that was not criminalised in both countries when it was committed. Nor can a person be extradited if they have already been convicted or acquitted for the offense in question.There are other pernicious myths, including the one that says the US never ratified the treaty. In fact it was ratified by the US Senate in 2006 and entered into force on 26 April, 2007. Another fallacy is that treaty was intended only as a counter-terrorism tool. The treaty, on its own terms, is a "dual criminality" treaty, which targets all serious offenses that are illegal in both countries. This includes terrorism but also includes homicide, other violent crimes, sex offenses, narcotics trafficking, and white collar crimes such as corporate fraud and money-laundering.And it works. The treaty is an effective, modern law enforcement tool. It helps both our countries bring criminal defendants to trial and return escaped convicts to justice. It protects the rights of our citizens; and does so on an equal footing based on trust and mutual respect.