The claim that more prison equals less crime has a superficial attraction. It corresponds to the commonsense belief that prison is a place full of bad people who would otherwise be committing crime.The statistics also give apparent credence to the view. Between 1993 and 2010 the prison population in England and Wales nearly doubled, from some 44,500 to around 85,000. Crime measured by the British Crime Survey (BCS) fell from 18.5m offences in 1993 to 10.7m by 2008-2009. Put another way, BCS crime fell by just under a half in England and Wales at the same time as the prison population grew by nearly a half. The United States showed similar trends of falling official crime rates and burgeoning prison populations.Against this background the recent interventions by the lord chancellor, Kenneth Clarke, have been against the grain of much mainstream public and political opinion. A couple of weeks ago, speaking at an event hosted by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, he told his audience that he was "amazed" that the prison population had close to doubled since he had been home secretary in the early 1990s. "This is quite an astonishing number," he observed, "which I would have dismissed as an impossible and ridiculous prediction if it had been put to me as a forecast in 1992."His speech drew predictable criticism from Michael Howard, Clarke's successor as Conservative home secretary, as well as from the former Labour lord chancellor, Jack Straw.Clarke has now returned to the argument in a speech last night to judges. Across the western world, he argued, there was no "direct correlation" between prison numbers and crime rates. The fall in the crime rate during the 1990s, he suggested, was more down to his policies as chancellor than Michael Howard's as home secretary.To back up his claims, Clarke could do worse than ask his officials to dig out a confidential strategy unit report drawn up in 2006 and leaked to the Sunday Times. It argued that "80% of [the] recent decrease in crime [is] due to economic factors".But the figures likewise illustrate how unclear the prison-crime rate correlation is. Prison numbers in England and Wales doubled between 1951 and 1971, for instance, while police-recorded crime trebled. Recorded crime trebled again between 1971 and 1991, while prison numbers remained largely unchanged.In the US, too, the picture is mixed. The New York jail population plummeted during the 1990s at the same time as homicide rates were falling. Idaho dramatically increased its prison population during the 1990s and saw its crime rates rise. The prison population in Massachusetts changed hardly at all, yet its crime rate fell by a third.Clarke is right to raise the question of the link between prison numbers and rates of crime. Nearly two decades after his predecessor Howard fired the starting pistol on rampant prison expansion, the time is long overdue for a more considered, evidence-informed approach.