Detectives have until tomorrow morning to charge a teenager and his father held on suspicion of murdering an 18-year-old woman in east London.Aliza Mirza, from Ilford, died after being stabbed in the neck at about 8pm on Saturday close to Manor Park railway station.A 17-year-old, believed to be the victim's former boyfriend, and his father, 45, are being held at a police station.Two women aged 29 and 41, reportedly the boy's mother and sister, and another 42-year-old man were also arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender and have been bailed.A Metropolitan police spokesman said motives for the murder were "still under consideration" amid media reports Mirza was attacked because she had started a new relationship.Last night her father, Munir Mirza, 50, paid tribute to his daughter and told reporters he did not know she had a boyfriend."She was a diamond. She was pretty, intelligent and had a very bright future. She was a brilliant girl and had all the qualities a daughter should have," he said.Mr Mirza said he last saw his daughter at about 5pm on Saturday as she left home to go to a party. Emergency services were called to Forest View Road, near Manor Park station, at 7.40pm after reports that a woman had collapsed in the street. Mirza was taken to Whipps Cross hospital, Leytonstone, where she was pronounced dead.This morning a Facebook tribute page opened for Mirza and had gathered more than 5,700 members.A post on the page from Tehreem Mirza read: "Aliza i miss you soo much jus please come back ... the peace of this house has gone .. you were the best sister ever and i never thought you would just leave us like this ... i love you sooo muchh i just want you back more than anything.... RIP."Sohail Raja wrote: "RIP Aliza... u was the best neighbour that i ever had ... miss you."Mirza was studying A-levels at Canon Palmer Catholic school in Ilford.A notice on the school's website said: "The school community extends its sincere condolences to her greiving family and friends."Detective Chief Inspector Stephen Clayman said: "We believe that there would have been people in and around the Forest View Road area that we hope may have seen our victim, who is an Asian female of slim build, either on her own or with another person or persons, and we are appealing for these people to contact us."We are also keen to hear from anybody who may have seen or heard anything they think was suspicious or who may have seen anyone leaving the area, either on foot or in a car."