The hunt has intensified for Raoul Moat, the Newcastle bodybuilder suspected of killing one man and seriously injuring his former girlfriend and a police officer in a shooting spree, as it emerged that he had written a letter in which he "declared war on Northumbria police".Armed officers from six forces searched Newcastle and the surrounding area, trying to track down the 37-year-old, who friends and acquaintances said would not give himself up easily and was likely to prefer to be shot by police.Northumbria police said that police were warned he wanted to cause serious harm to his ex-partner before he allegedly struck.Details emerged last night of a 49-page letter, dated 4 July, Moat wrote to police. According to the Sun, the letter, delivered to police by one of Moat's friends, said: "The public need not fear me, but the police should as I won't stop till I am dead. They took it all from me, kids, freedom, house, then Sam and Chanel. Where could I go from there. Obviously I have issues, but I was pushed. I never beat my kids." Police said Moat had been in contact with them several times since the attacks.Amid fears that Moat could strike again, police mounted at least two operations in which they targeted the wrong people. Dozens of armed officers, a police helicopter and several dog units were involved in a raid on a house in the North Kenton area of Newcastle. Another innocent man was seized in Sunderland before being released.Police last night revealed details of a black Lexus IS200 SE saloon car, registration V322 HKX, they are searching for which is believed to be associated with Moat. It is described as having a full body kit and two regular alloy wheels and two "space saver" thin wheels, although it does not belong to him but to an associate.Moat is suspected of shooting his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, 22, and killing her boyfriend, Chris Brown, 20, early on Saturday morning at her mother's home in Gateshead. He then shot and critically injured PC David Rathband, 42, as he sat in a patrol car several miles away at East Denton.Moat had a 19-month-old daughter, Chanel, with Stobbart, who ended their relationship while Moat was in jail.Stobbart's half-sister, Kelly, 27, said Moat had published a "hitlist" of targets on Facebook. She said: "He's updated his status on Facebook and there's now a hitlist. I'm on it and so are family members. He's said he will take out any police that get in his way." Apparently taunting the police, Moat also made a six-minute 999 call 12 minutes before he shot PC Rathband, outlining what he planned to do. He made another call 50 minutes after the shooting in which he appeared to show no concern for the officer's critical injuries.Last night police took the unusual step of releasing images of PC Rathband's bloody injuries taken before he received treatment. Temporary chief constable Sue Sim said the father of two was sitting in the driver's seat of his marked police car when he was approached by Moat, who fired two shots at him. He suffered serious injuries to his head and upper body.Earlier, Stobbart, who is recovering from surgery after being shot appealed to Moat to give himself up through Detective Chief Superintendant Neil Adamson. He said on her behalf: "If you still love me and our baby you would not be doing this any more. When you came out of jail I told you I was seeing a police officer. I said this because I was frightened. I have not been seeing a police officer." Chris Brown, whom he shot dead, was a karate instructor.Adamson said a number of people might be aware of Moat's movements: "They may even have had contact with him over the weekend. We need to speak to these people." Moat is believed to still be in the north-east. Several people were under police protection today, including Stobbart.Near Moat's home in the Fenham area of Newcastle, one neighbour said she had seen him on Thursday, the day he was released from prison and two days before he embarked on his shooting spree. "He was dressed as if to go to war," she said.Earlier in the day, Sim admitted officials at Durham prison, where Moat had been serving a short sentence until Thursday, had warned on Friday that he "may intend to cause serious harm to his partner". The police did not say whether Stobbart had been told about the threat. Sim has referred the case to the IPCC.*  This article was amended on 6 July 2010, to correct a reference to the police wrongly arresting two people.