I would rethink crime and punishment by categorising defendants during trial - sending first offenders, with no history of violence or drugs, directly to an open prison. I would pay inmates the same for all jobs, including education - if it was as financially rewarding to learn and write, they would have more options on release, and may be less likely to re-offend. The punishment for smoking marijuana should be different to that for taking heroin to stop a number of social marijuana smokers turning to heroin simply because it can be flushed out in 24 hours as opposed to 28 days, thus avoiding any adverse drug testing result. Lord ArcherI would rethink crime and punishment by making sure that every government department and public organisation has a commitment to reducing crime and disorder built into their work programmes. Truly joined up working like this is absolutely key. Everyone needs to understand that while the police can lead the fight against crime, they can only do this with the active support of the organisations and people they work to protect. Ken Livingstone Mayor of LondonI would rethink crime and punishment by not simply starting from where we find ourselves now. We should re-imagine our response afresh, putting the needs of the victims of the crime, and the needs of the perpetrators of crime and their families, at the centre of our debate.  Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O'Connor, Roman Catholic Archbishop of WestminsterI would rethink crime and punishment by within six months, releasing at least 20,000 prisoners from prison on parole. The prisons are grossly overcrowded and cannot do their job properly. We also need to robustly reinforce discipline in schools, starting with nursery schools. Unless this issue is tackled now, the next generation will reap a whirlwind. More people, especially young people, also need to be kept out of the court system altogether including through restorative justice. We also need to stop politicians from meddling too much and too often, to educate the media who are often unfair and provocative, to mentor selected offenders under judicial supervision and to send less people to prison. His Honour Judge Christopher CompstonI would rethink crime and punishment by focusing offenders on the harm they have done through mediation with their victim or other victims. Community work, if necessary whilst tagged, is better than prison for all but the dangerous. Women self-harm in prison; men get caught up in more crime and both pass delinquency onto the next generation. Vera Baird QC, Member of Parliament for RedcarI would rethink crime and punishment by placing the main emphasis of crime reduction policy on promoting social inclusion. This means support for families under stress, effective pre-school education, reducing school exclusion, specialist education and training programmes for at risk young people, well structured youth activity and supported accommodation provision for homeless young people and adults. I would restrict imprisonment to dangerous offenders and shift the criminal justice system strongly towards rehabilitation. All offenders should receive high quality help with education, employment, accommodation, mentoring, mental health, addiction problems, offending behaviour and maintaining family ties. This would reduce crime far more effectively than a punitive approach. Paul Cavadino, chief executive, NacroI would rethink crime and punishment by abandoning the ineffective concept of punishment which is simply revenge in camouflage. A whole new system should help to create a safer society, to prevent crime and protect victims. People who commit offences should take responsibility and make amends for what they have done. Prison should be a scarce resource used only for serious and violent offenders who are a danger. At present it feeds the crime problem by encouraging sloth, malevolence and violence. Frances Crook, Director, The Howard League for Penal ReformI would rethink crime and punishment by increasing skills. Only one in five prisoners have literacy levels higher than an 11 year-old's, and when in prison people lose touch with their families. This makes it difficult for prisoners to cope with life's practical problems. However, when they are better equipped to do so, offending rates drop substantially. Citizens Advice Bureaux can help. Our advice can help sort out problems, preventing family breakdown, debt and the loss of a home to return to. Our work on financial literacy can help skill people to deal with future problems themselves. David Harker, chief executive, Citizens AdviceI would rethink crime and punishment by undertaking a long-term programme to engage the public on the issue. Among those involved with the criminal justice system, it is common ground that concerted effort needs to be directed at the causes of crime and that more effective responses are needed. The public is generally unengaged in this debate and presumes that the answer lies primarily in more effective detection and conviction, combined with tougher punishment. The gulf between practitioners and public has led to the constant cycle of changing policy and lack of commitment even to promising new initiatives. Such a programme should include teaching in schools and adult involvement in prison visits, courts and victim contact. When, and only when, there is a common perception of the nature of the problem and the effectiveness of current practices will there be popular support for the innovation that exists among practitioners. Derek Lewis, former director general of the Prison ServiceI would rethink crime and punishment by taking party politics out of policy making, and making policy based on evidence of what works. And what works is whatever is best at stopping people reoffending. Making offenders see the effect on victims - always, in every case - would be a good start. Ensuring active education for prisoners, particularly young prisoners and detainees, would be another. Stephen Irwin, chairman, General Council of the Bar of England and WalesI would rethink crime and punishment by shifting the focus away from imprisonment and establishing the principle that offenders should wherever possible pay back their debt to society through supervised work in the community. Crime rates remain unacceptably high, communities are more divided than ever, and many people feel powerless and afraid. I want to put power back into the hands of ordinary people and get them involved in solving the problems on their doorstep. This should be done by allowing communities a greater role in holding the police to account, by expanding restorative justice schemes to deal with anti-social behaviour, and by giving the community a say in the work carried out by offenders. I have no problem with tough prison sentences for violent offenders, but I find it unacceptable that we do so little to rehabilitate those we lock up. I want to see an end to the scandal of individuals leaving prison still unable to fill in a basic job application form. Expansion of education and training should go hand in hand with strong incentives to learn the skills needed to break out of the cycle of crime.Mark Oaten MP, Member of Parliament for Winchester, Liberal Democrat Shadow Home SecretaryI would rethink crime and punishment by rethinking whether the framework of what is needed to improve the way that punishment fits the crime is in place. All that is needed is the political will to flesh it out. The numbers in custody must be reduced. Attention must be paid to ensuring that there are sufficient numbers of trained supervisors available to oversee all alternatives to custody. These should include many of the programmes currently conducted in prison such as education, work skills, drug treatment programmes and teaching sustainable lifestyles to the mentally disordered. Sir David Ramsbotham, former chief inspector of prisonsCopies of I Would Rethink Crime and Punishment By... are available free. Details from www.rethinking.org.uk