The Police Complaints Authority is to investigate claims that ethnic minority officers in the Greater Manchester force are given softer disciplinary punishments than white colleagues.The allegations were made by Supt Peter Schofield, a senior officer in the internal affairs department at GMP, a force described by its previous chief constable as institutionally racist. Mr Schofield, who is on holiday, is believed to have felt he was under pressure from superiors to be inappropriately lenient. He claimed that the integrity of the force was at stake. The PCA is investigating even though it admits that the complaints technically fall outside its remit because they have not come from a member of the public. The claims come three weeks after a BBC undercover reporter recorded three Greater Manchester officers making racist comments. The officers later resigned. Mr Schofield drew up a list of cases in which he believed punishments were inappropriate. One is thought to involve a black officer who went to watch Manchester United's Champions League game with Rangers during his shift. Mr Schofield, described as a respected officer who is well known to PCA staff, sent copies of his dossier to the complaints authority and to Greeater Manchester's chief constable, Mike Todd. Mr Todd, who is still dealing with the aftermath of the BBC film, is understood to be deeply frustrated that he was unable to investigate Mr Schofield's claims before they reached the PCA. In a statement, Greater Manchester police said it was the right of any officer "to highlight concerns they have about fairness to their managers and we encourage our staff to question our processes. The concerns raised in this particular case were passed by the officer to the chief constable and the Police Complaints Authority and GMP has since been in dialogue with them to ensure that they have all the necessary facts".Ray Powell, president of the National Black Police Association, said: "If the PCA has no remit in this case, then why are they investigating it? What kind of message does that send out to black and Asian officers? I am disturbed that an individual officer would feel the need to [make these allegations] now. It begs the question about where his thinking is at."