A contemporary tragedy is unfolding before our eyes. Two men, each passionately committed to their point of view, are facing each other down over who is to carry the blame for the grim and quite probably avoidable deaths of two young girls. But both are caught in a predicament beyond their control. If the system had worked as it should have, Ian Huntley would have been spotted early as a threat and never been given a job working around children. If all the agencies involved had shared their knowledge, he'd have been behind bars long ago.The battle between the two Davids - the home secretary, David Blunkett, and David Westwood, the chief constable of Humberside - is now making history: the local police authority's refusal to suspend its much-criticised chief challenges the home secretary's powers under the Police Reform Act of 2002; the home secretary is making history by trying to force them to do so.Blunkett's critics may call him a bully, riding roughshod over local wishes. But he sees himself as a little man, with too little power to influence decisions for which he is responsible to parliament. Many senior police officers find this hard to take. Many sympathise with David Westwood, and admit privately: "There, but for the grace of God, go I". This is an all too familiar British ritual: the search for a scapegoat when the system has failed. Many senior officers see Blunkett's response as a way to avoid the Home Office taking its share of the blame. Almost unnoticed, many of Sir Michael Bichard's recommendations concern the Home Office's failure to back a national system for sharing intelligence. It's 10 years since the problem was highlighted and plans were proposed by chief officers. But successive home secretaries failed to prioritise or fund them. To be fair, much of Blunkett's statement to the house last week acknowledged the Home Office's failings, and he promised to address them. But the media and subsequent statements have focused on the Westwood saga. What's behind all this goes far beyond what happens to one man's career. This home secretary praises local participation, wants more people to get involved. But what's come out of the Home Office has sent the opposite signal. It's been a blizzard of paper. Police have had to absorb some 637 pieces of new legislation since 1997. The Home Office has imposed centrally directed targets and league tables. Then there are audits - from Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary, the Police Standards Unit, the Audit Commission, and so on. In a parody of bureaucracy, there are more than 50 units inside the Home Office dealing with police. This is the paradox of Blunkett's style: the plain-speaking Yorkshireman, who, to "cut the crap", has spawned dozens of studies, standards and directives that complicate the workings of the forces he aims to simplify. The obvious question is that if there's so much inspecting going on, why didn't they spot Humberside's failures well in advance of Ian Huntley? One chief told me that everyone took their eye off the ball - because they focused on meeting government targets. Police were ordered to cut volume crime - burglary, robbery, theft and car crime. And they succeeded. But fear of crime has remained intractably high - an ongoing political problem for any home secretary. Blunkett's frustration with the cumbersome system he oversees drives his controversial direct appeals to the people. Last week he spoke out about the middle-aged man seized by Portuguese police in the early hours, away from the rioting. After a dubious trial, Blunkett wanted him "nailed" - not the first time he's ignored judicial niceties to declare people guilty. Behind the squaring-off between Blunkett and Westwood is an important question about British democracy: where should power lie? The old balance of power between home secretary, chief constable and local police authority was based on "the reasonable person" behaving reasonably. But what happens when one party suddenly becomes unreasonable? Blunkett went to the high court Monday night, seeking an injunction to enforce his fiat against the Humberside local police authority to suspend Westwood. But he has been highly critical of judges, and forced through changes that have not won him support among m'learned friends. It will be interesting to see how the judge treats the dilemma between central control and local democracy. The home secretary clearly has the law on his side, as well as much of the media. The other David has the backing of many fellow chief officers, and one of the murdered children's parents. But I wonder how the judge will view one of his profession's severest critics. · Roger Graef was recently awarded a Bafta fellowship for his films on criminal justice and the police films@filmsofrecord.com