The family of the murdered black teenager Stephen Lawrence yesterday accused the Metropolitan police of coaching officers in what evidence to give the inquiry into his death.The attack comes after a leaked document, entitled "Possible questions you might be asked", fell into the hands of the family's lawyers. Sergeant Peter Solley, a race liaison officer who gave evidence yesterday, claimed he had written the document as a memory aid to himself.But the document is written in the third person, giving the impression that it came from another source. Questions and answers on possible areas of interrogation are colour-coded red or green, depending on whether information is dangerous or "can be used as it stands or expanded on".The document advises the officer: "Try not to contradict yourself!"The Lawrence family campaign said in a statement: "It has become increasingly clear during the course of this inquiry that a culture of protectionism pervades the Metropolitan police."Today's extraordinary events suggest that the process is systematic and thorough. The stage management of the police response seems to have reached the point where a police witness was shown to be working to a prepared script."One question in the eight-page document asks if officers in the area where Stephen was killed by racists in April 1993 had been briefed on local race issues. The document says the officer should: "Give an honest reply. First ask for clarification of this question as it may be a tricky one."Another question asks when the sergeant first became aware of family liaison officers being appointed to the murder inquiry team and whether the relationship with the family broke down before or after their arrival."BE CAREFUL HOW YOU ANSWER THIS QUESTION, IT CAN BE A TRICKY ONE!!" the document advises.Stephen Kamlish, counsel for the Lawrence family, asked Sgt Solley why the document had been written in the third person if it was just an aide-memoire. "Why doesn't it say 'I'?" he asked.Sgt Solley said that just happened to be the way he wrote it. "I had it clear in my mind the issues that were raised and the quality of reply needed."Outside the inquiry, a Metropolitan police spokeswoman said the document did not prove there was a systematic attempt to co-ordinate officers' evidence. "There has been absolutely no coaching of officers by the Metropolitan police."Stephen's parents, Neville and Doreen Lawrence, expressed their "outrage and disappointment" at a letter Mike Bennett, chairman of the Metropolitan arm of the Police Federation, wrote to the Police Review complaining that the inquiry was unfairly portraying the police as racist and incompetent.They said the remarks showed that the apology they received from the force last week was not endorsed by most officers. "It shows that the police do not really care about what has come out of the inquiry so far and are not prepared to change," they said in a statement.