Britain may be about to lose its reputation as a nation of dog-lovers, thanks to a government plan to stamp out nuisance barking.More than five million dog owners will be warned that they face imprisonment or a £5,000 fine if their pets 'bark too much'. New guidance from the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) even threatens owners whose dogs yap for sustained periods with anti-social behaviour orders. Defra will distribute leaflets this month warning that the UK's 6.8 million dog-owners must make every effort to keep their pets quiet or face punishment. Council tenants could face eviction. Environmental protection experts said dogs were already being confiscated under measures that allow 'noise-making equipment' to be removed from nuisance neighbours. Councils are also examining measures to pacify barking animals. West Wiltshire district council is to begin targeting noisy pets with dog wardens, while officials in Belfast are promoting anti-bark collars. Studies by the National Society for Clean Air and Environmental Protection reveals that more than half of local authorities cite barking as the most consistent source of noise complaint behind loud music. Almost a third of residents admit to being disturbed by barking and a fifth found it more annoying than blaring alarms. Experts warn that the problem can only worsen in the coming months as windows are thrown open and dogs are allowed out into gardens. 'Constant yapping can drive neighbours barking mad, particularly if they are at home or are not particularly mobile,' said Mary Stevens of the national society. The government leaflet, 'Is your dog barking too much?', advises owners to consider 'using a webcam or video to find out what your dog is doing when you're not there'. Flat dwellers are told to try to keep their pets away from adjoining walls. Closing curtains or doors is raised as a solution to stopping dogs yelping at passers-by. Other tips recommend owners to avoid playing with their pet if they are liable to become over-excited. 'Don't play with it at anti-social times like very late at night,' it reads. Some groups warned that the crackdown was excessive. A spokesman for the Kennel Club said: 'Any loud constant noise is going to be a nuisance. However, dogs shouldn't just bark and their owners should consider dog training.'