I've checked my palms for hairs, but there's no sign. So maybe it's the ones that sprout from my ears with bristly persistence these days which tell the tale: just because it's a cliche that people move to the right politically in middle age doesn't mean it can't be true - even of me who is more likely to win gold in 2012 than vote Conservative. Whatever, the amazing fact remains: I've been listening to the Tories about crime.Yesterday Nick Herbert MP, the lovely Boy Dave's spokesman for police reform, published a document setting out his party's view of what is wrong with the way plod operates and how to put that right. I am sceptical about a lot of it: talk of fast-tracking "talented people" into senior ranks via a "military-style senior staff college" reminds me of past pleas for the creation of "officer class" cop elites that came to nothing; claims that "New" Labour's boasts about a fall in the general level of crime are based on false statistics need to be substantiated more fully. None the less, compared with Doc Red Top's wizard plan to have CCTV cameras give litterbugs verbal clips round the ear, some of Herbert's proposals appear quite sane.This view is not informed by great expertise, but on certain recent experiences. I've written for Cif and elsewhere about my small involvement in a successful community campaign to close a neighbourhood nightclub that had become a focal point for antisocial behaviour and the most violent forms of criminality. A vital part of it was the active involvement of police officers, by attending meetings, talking to residents, interacting with citizens in our own backyards.The most radical parts of the Tory document propose formalising closer relationships between constabularies and those they serve, with local elected commissioners hiring, firing, budgeting and demanding accountability as part of power being transfered to local level. Putting such ideas into action would hardly be a piece of cake, especially given the police's customary distrust of change. What's more, I can't yet shake either my prejudice against the nostalgia of cravings for "bobbies on the beat" or my dark suspicion that there must be a catch to the "broken window" approach given the pedigree of its evangelists. But the principles informing the proposals - devolving, engaging, collaborating - are the right ones.The other recent episode to make me weirdly receptive to the True Blue pitch concerned my secondborn, a young man aged 17. A few weeks back he visited some cousins only to find the house empty when he arrived. A call on his mobile revealed that the cousin with a key was still 10 minutes away, so my son waited for him beside the front gate. There, he was challenged by a police officer. Openly doubting his story, she demanded he supply her with his name and address and then commenced to fill in a form.When the key-holding cousin arrived she was obliged to admit that her scepticism had been unfounded. Alas, the Mastermind convention - I've started, so I'll finish - had to be honoured. So while my son and his cousin went into the house to break out the Jammie Dodgers (or whatever it is young people do) she continued attending to her paperwork. A good 20 minutes passed before she knocked on the door to hand him a copy of what she'd written. (This included a description of what he was wearing. My son was interested to learn he'd a beanie hat on despite being bareheaded at the time).Again, I find my usual cynicism compromised. When people bang on about the police being too tied up with pointless bureaucracy to go about their proper business of emulating George Dixon, it's usually the preamble to some bleat about "political correctness". In this respect the Tory document is not entirely untainted. But how can I now deny that routine police procedures sometimes amount to a gross waste of police time? Logically, the officer who accosted my son ought to have placed herself under arrest.So here concludes my confession. Younger readers may fail to grasp its symbolism. Throughout the Thatcher years many of us endured the gruesome spectacle of Tory home secretaries talking "tough" about law and order and Tory backwoodsmen cheering them on while the crime rate soared. That's why to entertain even the possibility of the Conservatives having some half-decent ideas in this area of policy is so profoundly disorientating. That said, they haven't got an awful lot to beat. John Reid and his talking cameras. I can think of only one good use for them.