More than 2,000 extra traffic speed cameras are expected to be installed as a result of legislation unveiled yesterday designed to crack down on car crime and the illicit trade in stolen vehicles.New powers in the vehicles crime bill published yesterday will for the first time allow the fines paid by speeding motorists caught on film to be ploughed back into buying new cameras and updating them with digital technology. The extra powers follow seven pilot schemes around the country. Preliminary indications are said to show "a positive" influence on speed levels and a reduction in accidents of more than 20%. Lord Whitty, the transport minister, said the legislation would allow the proceeds from the existing 4,000 traffic cameras to finance their further expansion: "We expect a significant increase in safety cameras, mostly in urban areas. It is likely to be around 50%, based on indications from local authorities and police forces." He also said that the introduction of digital cameras, already under way, would counter the belief that many cameras did not have any film in them: "The improved technology means when the flash goes off you must assume it is working and that it will be followed up." Lord Whitty said 3,400 people were killed every year on the roads - one in three of them as a result of speeding motorists. The new bill, which is expected to make swift progress through parliament, will also introduce powers to regulate the 3,000 firms operating in the motor salvage industry in an effort to tackle the sale of 30,000 stolen cars and vans each year by criminals who pass them off using the identities of legitimate vehicles. This process, known as ringing, often involves the use of the registration documents of cars that have been seriously damaged or written off. Charles Clarke, the home office minister, said yesterday the bill would license dealers in the motor salvage industry and make sure they kept proper records of all their transactions. For the first time dealers who supply number plates will would also have to be licensed, and identity and entitlement checks will be introduced before a new set of plates is sold. The legislation will give the police bulk access for the first time to the motor insurance industry's database so they can quickly and easily identify uninsured cars on the road. This will supplement the police's own stolen car index, which is also kept on a central computer database. Lord Whitty said: "This bill is good news for motorists who should benefit from increased confidence in buying second hand cars and from road safety improvements generated by speed camera money. We plan to regulate the supply of number plates and also tighten up on vehicle registration procedures. Collectively they have the potential to make a real contribution to bringing down vehicle crime." An Automobile Association spokesman said it supported legislation, saying lax control of the motor salvage industry had helped car thieves to prosper at the expense of law-abiding motorists. "The proposed legislation will make it very difficult for car thieves."