Nobody relishes the prospect of a jail sentence. But when liberty is snatched away, certain things make life inside more bearable - regular visits from family and friends, recognisable food for breakfast, and the facility to catch up with familiar TV programmes, maintaining some link with the outside world. For foreign nationals who find themselves in British jails, however, it can be almost impossible to connect with any aspect of their former lives. Family and friends cannot keep popping over from eastern Europe, South America or the Caribbean (and may not want to if they feel their loved one has brought shame on the family) and the standard prison diet is unlikely to remind them of home cuisine. Even procuring a newspaper in a language they understand can be tricky. The percentage of foreign national prisoners in Britain's overcrowded jails is increasing fast. According to Home Office figures, the proportion was static between 1991 and 1999, at some 8%. It rose to 9% in the latest published statistics, for 2000, and Hindpal Singh Bhui, foreign nationals coordinator at Wandsworth prison, south London, says the latest figures he has seen put it at 11%. In London prisons, the proportion is anything between 25% and 40%. The Home Office says there are people from 163 countries in prisons in England and Wales. "Fifty per cent of the foreign national population comes from five countries," says a spokeswoman, "but the other 50% comes from 158, representing a vast number of languages, cultures and spiritual needs - all of which have to be accommodated within prisons." One of the commonest crimes committed by foreign nationals is importing drugs. Sentences for this are stiff, relating to the street value of the drugs brought in, and a 10-year term is not uncommon. Prisoners from Nigeria used to head the overseas drug-smuggling league, but since the Nigerian government introduced the draconian "Decree 33" - which imprisons drug couriers in Nigeria after they complete their British sentence - numbers have dwindled almost to zero. The gap has been filled by eastern Europeans, Jamaicans and South Americans. Olga Heaven is director and founder of Hibiscus, which provides support for women from overseas jailed here for drug offences. She is very concerned at the large numbers of Jamaican women spending time in British jails. "My biggest worry is for the children these women leave behind," she says. "What is the long-term psychological effect on them of being separated from their mothers for five years or more?" Janine, a 50-year-old Jamaican woman who returned to the Caribbean in January after serving almost five years for smuggling cocaine, says the separation from her children was the hardest thing to bear. "My older children looked after the younger ones while I was away and they coped without me," she says. "I was treated excellently in the British prison system. I found God and took lots of courses, but it was hard being without my children." The single biggest problem for prisoners like Janine is isolation, not only from friends and family, but also from culture and community. New Bridge, an organisation that supports prisoners, runs social groups that are for all inmates but are particularly popular with isolated foreign nationals. It also provides translators for things such as hospital visits. "Imagine finding yourself in prison in a country whose language and culture you don't know," says John Roberts, south-west regional manager for New Bridge. "It's hard to keep out of trouble in a foreign prison if you don't understand what the rules are." Failure to understand English can make observing rules almost impossible. The prison service does use a telephone translation service to sort out specific problems, but, when it comes to getting through a typical day, an inmate who speaks little or no English cannot expect to have a translator permanently on hand. At Wandsworth, 330 of the 1,400 prisoners are foreign nationals. Singh Bhui says the number of languages spoken changes on an almost daily basis, with fluctuations in the prison population. "I was creating an information leaflet for foreign national prisoners, recently. I had a hell of a job restricting it to 25 languages because so many languages are spoken here." Prisoners whose mother tongue is not English do pick up the language while they are in jail and, occasionally, some English prisoners broaden their horizons by learning the language of their cellmates. "At the moment, we've got an Argentinian prisoner who's teaching a few people on his wing Spanish,"says Singh Bhui. While the prison service tries to cater for different religious, cultural, language and dietary needs, Singh Bhui says it is impossible to do everything for everyone. And the isolation felt by foreign national prisoners can be compounded by racism. "There is a fair degree of racism towards foreign nationals in prison," he says. "We have a feedback form for foreign nationals and, while racism does come up, they also raise issues common to all prisoners, such as lack of staffing, lack of association time, the inability to get regular showers." At Wandsworth, selected foreign nationals are trained to support others and to liaise with prison staff about their problems and needs. Farid, an Iranian prisoner doing time for drug importation, and Hasan, a Turkish prisoner serving a sentence for GBH, both work as orderlies and have been selected to support other foreign nationals. They wear armbands symbolising their status. "This is my first experience in prison," says Farid. "The whole thing came as a total shock to me. On the outside, I didn't take enough advantage of my liberty, but now I'm inside I know what I'm missing. My family has stood by me, but one of the worst things when I get out will be the embarrassment in my community. "I've adapted myself to my environment and I try to support foreign national prisoners and advise them about the best way to do things. For example, in some cultures, it might be acceptable to say: 'I must make a phone call.' But here, you should say: 'May I make a phone call?'" Hasan says foreign national prisoners can be more vulnerable and may get picked on because of their inability to express themselves in English. "We try to offer support and information about the prison regime and can help with legal letters and immigration matters. Prisoners come and go, but the issues stay the same." The multiple difficulties of foreign nationals do not end when their sentence is complete. Janine was overjoyed to return home and be reunited with her four children, but going back to Jamaica has not been easy. She lives with her 13-year-old daughter and says she is trying to pick up the pieces of her shattered life. "I used to have a successful hairdressing business, but I've lost everything," she says. "It's hard being free. I'm in hiding, frightened that if I go back to where I used to live, I'll get bullied into carrying more drugs to England. I need to keep away. I know I can't look back - only forwards."