A mother who apparently killed herself and her disabled daughter by setting fire to their car had faced years of abuse from youths and children, but police "did nothing" despite her repeated pleas for help, an inquest heard today.The bodies of Fiona Pilkington, 38, and her 18-year-old daughter, Francecca Hardwick, known as Frankie, were found burnt beyond recognition in her Austin Maestro in a layby in Leicestershire in 2007.A gang of up to 16 girls and boys, including children as young as 10, had continually terrorised the family, the inquest at Loughborough town hall was told. They threw stones, flour and eggs at their house in Barwell, near Hinckley, urinated in the garden and taunted Frankie, who had severe learning disabilities, and her dyslexic brother, Anthony.Despite police logs of 21 calls in seven years, many referring to Anthony being bullied, no prosecutions were brought and the abuse continued. Pilkington's mother, Pamela Cassell, told the inquest that Pilkington had rung the police on the day she and Frankie died to complain about children walking on her hedge, and was told to "ignore them".A former Leicestershire assistant chief constable, Chris Tew, listed details of each incident logged. Often the records noted there were no resources available, and ended "incident closed".Once the family was reported to be in a situation described by the coroner, Olivia Davison, as "under siege", with youths shouting abuse from the hedges, but a beat officer did not get in touch until four days later. Tew said that it was difficult to bring prosecutions because it was not what the family had wanted.The coroner interjected, saying that "there must be a time when the police say … 'this needs to be prosecuted'."She added: "This was a woman who may have been terrified, who might have been vulnerable and not the best person to make the decision about a prosecution."In one incident Anthony was forced into a shed at knifepoint, the inquest heard, and on another the family reported that youths had threatened to kill him.Cassell told the jury that her daughter, a single mother and full-time carer, was in depression. She reached "despair" by 2007 and had "given up" after being targeted for most of the 15 years she lived in the house. "She was fed up because the kids could walk all over her and nobody was doing anything to help." She had no respite care, Cassell said, even though Frankie, doubly incontinent, needed constant attention because she had an undiagnosed condition that meant she felt no pain and could hurt herself without realising.On 23 October 2007 Pilkington filled a petrol can at her local garage. That night her blazing car was discovered. Cassell told the hearing her daughter was "dreading" Halloween and Bonfire Night. "She knew what would happen," she said. "The children would start throwing things at the house and putting fireworks through the letterbox."The inquest continues.