I'd been out for dinner with my father, stepmother and husband Paul to celebrate my 30th birthday. Afterwards, Paul and I met friends in a bar. We shared some bottles of wine, and I couldn't resist a few cigarettes. I often wonder how different my life would have been had I not smoked that night. Paul and I were trying for a baby and I was meant to have given up, so we had a huge row. He stormed off and I decided to go to a club and crash at my best friend Lucy's. I was feeling defiant: why shouldn't I celebrate my birthday? At the club, I let a few strangers buy me drinks. When one offered me a lift home, I accepted, but in his car I got scared and called Lucy. He grabbed the phone out of my hands, threw it to the floor and raped me violently in the back of the car. He then dumped me half-naked in town, where the police found me without trousers or pants on, and took me to my mum's. I have no memory of any of this - the alcohol and the trauma of what happened have wiped it out. Everything I know now has been pieced together from the police investigation, CCTV images and witness statements. All I remember is waking up at my mum's the next day, my pounding head accompanied by a sense of dread that something terrible had happened. I wanted to see Paul, but I couldn't reach him on his mobile phone. It soon became clear he was ignoring my calls.That morning, after an internal examination by police, Mum drove me to the house to collect my things. I'd been told not to talk to Paul until he'd given a statement, but all I wanted was for him to take me in his arms and comfort me. I remember letting myself in and seeing him sitting watching TV as though it were a normal afternoon. He barely looked up. I knew straight away he somehow blamed me for what had happened. The weeks after the attack were harrowing. I had to take the morning-after pill and have STI and HIV tests, both thankfully clear. The police still hadn't told me I'd been raped - they didn't want to influence my statement should my memory return. But I guessed what had happened from the way I felt: it was such a brutal attack, I was left with internal injuries that would take months to heal. As for Paul, I convinced myself he'd call as soon as he'd made his statement. Instead, he sent an email I've never been able to forget: "I know you didn't deliberately set out to get raped, but you are partly responsible for what happened."I tried to justify his behaviour, telling myself how hard it must be for him to accept that another man had violated his wife and that he just needed some time. But inside I was in turmoil. I tried to stay sane, but I loathed myself for not being able to remember anything. I would cry myself to sleep and wake in a cold sweat, trembling violently. A week after the rape, the police made an arrest; a trial would take place later in the year. Although a part of me was relieved, another part felt despair: because I couldn't remember the attack, I'd tried to convince myself that, on some level, nothing had really happened. That would no longer be possible. In June, five weeks after the rape, my doctor diagnosed me with post-traumatic stress disorder - the reason my memory still hasn't returned - and I began seeing a counsellor. Paul finally broke up with me in July - by text. I was devastated, but at the same time starting to reach a point where I could put things in perspective. I realised I wasn't to blame, and if he thought I was, I was better off without him. "I'm only 30," I told myself. "I still want a happy life." Some weeks later, I joined an internet dating site; I felt the longer I held off, the harder it would be to trust another man. Simon, a lawyer, started to email me. He seemed friendly and intelligent, so I agreed to meet him. I told him about my ordeal - hardly light conversation, but we met again and our relationship went from strength to strength. He was at my side throughout the trial. After a seven-day hearing, my attacker was found guilty. Although it was distressing finally to hear the details of that night, it was a huge relief. I saw him for the first time in January, when I attended court to see him sentenced to seven and a half years in jail. Of course, I'm still haunted by what happened, but I feel incredibly lucky to be building a new life. And I'm thankful I got justice. Some names have been changed.• Do you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com