Siôn Jenkins listened across a crowded courtroom today as his daughter Charlotte tearfully told three appeal judges of the day seven years ago upon which he was alleged to have beaten her foster sister Billie-Jo to death.Charlotte, 18, broke down in the witness box during questioning by her father's counsel, Clare Montgomery QC. Jenkins who is serving life for Billie-Jo's murder, appeared to wipe tears from his eyes. At one point, Charlotte, who was only 10 at the time of the murder, was asked by Miss Montgomery if she remembered telling her mother, Lois Jenkins, that she "knew" her father had killed Billie-Jo but did not believe he did it deliberately. She replied: "I may have because I was confused and kept changing my mind. I can't remember. "I was confused, remembering the day, wondering whether or not to believe what was in the papers, things like that." She said that at no time since Billie-Jo's death on February 15 1997 had her father ever asked her to say anything that was not true about that day. He had never asked her about it at all. Charlotte, who has dropped her nickname Lottie, flew to Britain from her home in Tasmania to give evidence in her father's appeal against his conviction.Her mother is due to give evidence next week. Yesterday, the appeal court judges hearing the case were told by Jenkins's lawyer that he was convicted of murdering 13-year-old Billie-Jo after being denied a fair trial by misleading information from his then wife. Jenkins, 46, a deputy head teacher, was jailed for life in 1998 for battering Billie-Jo to death with an 18in metal tent spike as she painted a patio door at their home in Hastings, East Sussex, on the afternoon of Saturday February 15 1997. It was alleged that, during a three-minute visit to the house, Jenkins had an argument with Billie-Jo, lost his temper, hit her over the head at least ten times and then drove off on a shopping trip with Charlotte and his other daughter, Annie. The judges will examine evidence that a mentally ill man, referred to as Mr X, who was known to have been in the vicinity when Billie-Jo was killed, had shown signs of having a fixation with pushing pieces of plastic bag up his nose. Billie-Jo had part of a black bin-liner stuffed deeply into one of her nostrils.The case continues.