It was the kind of wild party people talk about for years afterwards. More than 400 revellers kept a huge illegal rave going on four floors of an empty office block for 12 long hours, oblivious to the world outside.And that was just as well, for as they danced to the sound of the giant stereo system they had set up inside, police and environmental health officials were standing outside trying to work out how to get the marathon rave stopped. The partygoers had broken in and, despite pleas for them to leave the building, they insisted on staying put. The first police officers arrived after receiving a complaint from a local security guard at 2.30am on Sunday. They took the view that the noise at that time was not "excessive". But they were unable to repossess the building in Moorgate, central London, until 2.30pm yesterday, when the last of the partygoers turned off the music, staggered out and headed for home. A City of London police spokesman was obviously relieved as he watched them leave. "It has been shut down due to noise," he said. "Environmental health got a court order from the magistrates court and they do seem to be leaving peacefully. There were upwards of 400." A police spokeswoman said that around eight neighbours had made complaints about the noise. The operation tied up valuable resources during the night. British Transport Police were also called because of the building's proximity to the tube. For all that, only one person was arrested, on suspicion of possession with intent to supply drugs. Once the event had ended, some damage was discovered inside the building but it is not known whether it occurred during the revelry. Illegal party organisers and the police engage in a weekly battle of wits up and down the country, in buildings and on contested strips of land. Last year the battle was taken underground as organisers were interrupted while attempting to stage a party on a tube train. Word leaked out and as the party train began its second circuit of the Circle line, the revellers were met by unamused police and a television camera crew. Section 63 of the 1994 Criminal Justice Act gives the police the power to seize musical equipment and associated vehicles connected with illegal raves.