For nearly four decades Jonathan King was one of the pop industry's most colourful characters. His distinctive round glasses and lopsided grin provided the perfect eccentric visual accompaniment to a series of bubblegum pop hits that began in 1965, when he was still an undergraduate at Cambridge.King's songs were in the Top 30 time after time with hits including Una Paloma Blanca, Lick A Smurf For Christmas, Loop di Love by Shag, and Leap Up And Down And Wave Your Knickers In The Air, by St Cecilia.However, in 2001 the courtroom revelations that he had sexually abused boys sparked a spectacular fall from grace. King was found guilty by a jury at the Old Bailey and sentenced to seven years in prison for indecent assaults, buggery and attempted buggery on five teenagers during the 1980s. Another trial concerning allegations of abuse from the 1970s collapsed. Police had originally tried to pursue 22 offences ranging from 1969 to 1987 and involving 16 individuals, but many cases had to be dropped because of the difficulty of establishing the complainants' ages at the time. King continued to protest his innocence right through the prison term, but a hard-won reputation was left in tatters. He was born Kenneth George King in Surrey in 1944, the eldest of three boys from a solid middle-class household. His father, the managing director of a local textile firm, died when King was 12. Despite this he remained a happy child who was popular at his public school, Charterhouse.King was still a schoolboy when he first developed the fascination with pop music that would shape his career. "I fell passionately in love with music. It's the only passionate love affair I've had in my life, with one exception - me," he once said. A chance encounter while on a round-the-world trip during his gap year appears to have provided the key inspiration. While in Hawaii he bumped into The Beatles on tour, and turned not to John, Paul, Ringo or George for advice, but to their genius manager, Brian Epstein. By the time he returned to Cambridge to read English, King had become convinced he was destined to be a chart-topping songwriter.After a rocky start and a series of eminently forgettable numbers, he finally stumbled upon a successful formula with Everyone's Gone To The Moon. The song became a huge hit, reaching number four in the single charts in 1965, while King was studying for his finals. After graduating he continued writing, but also moved into management. At the age of 20, on a visit to his old school, he was handed a recording by an impressive local band, and decided to represent them. King chose the group's name - Genesis - and produced their first album, propelling them to international stardom. Other bands he was involved with included the supergroup 10CC, who enjoyed a string of hits during the 1970s, and glam rock stars the Bay City Rollers.But while his talent-spotting went from strength to strength, King also maintained his regular appearances in the charts in a variety of guises, including Bubblerock, Sakkarin and Shag. At one point he claimed to have been responsible for about 20 of the top 30 songs in the charts. After leaving Decca he set up his own label, UK Records, which became the most successful independent label in the business. King was always keen to be the centre of attention, and in the 1980s he took up presenting on radio and television, on shows such as BBC2's No Limits and Entertainment USA. He also tried his hand at novel writing and had a spell as a controversial newspaper columnist, getting into a number of wars of words, most memorably with Bob Geldof after he attacked the 1985 Live Aid concert. In 1990 he was asked to help revive the ailing Brit Awards, and in 1997 was named Man of the Year by the British Phonographic Industry.King, who is unmarried and has no children, always said he expected a lot from those dear to him. "Lots of the public simply detest me, I know. The reason I think is that life tends to turn you into a caricature of yourself," he once said. "I don't want friends who find it easy to be my friend, my friends have to go through hell and back, but I don't insist that they do." King claims the police and media conducted a witch-hunt against him, and witnesses only came forward to testify at the trial because he was famous. However, in January 2003 he failed to get his convictions overturned by the Court of Appeal, and the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) has refused to refer the matter back for appeal since. King's solicitor, Giovanni di Stefano, said the mogul was still planning an appeal under the European Human Rights Act. In the meantime, King, now 60, intends to keep himself busy putting together a musical about Cole Porter.