Police investigating the murder of three prostitutes by a suspected serial killer in Ipswich said today that two more women were missing, and warned the town's sex workers to stay off the streets.Officers named the first missing woman as Paula Clennell, 24, who was last seen late on Saturday. Reports of her disappearance followed the discovery by motorists of a third body in woodland in Nacton, near Ipswich. All the women were working as prostitutes, according to police.Later, Suffolk police said they were concerned for the safety of another Ipswich prostitute, whom they named as 29-year-old Annette Nicholls, last seen on December 3 or 4. They added that Ms Clennell was reported to have spoken to a friend last night, but they were still concerned for her safety.Detective Chief Superintendent Stewart Gull, who is heading the inquiry, said police could be looking for a serial killer. "It is possible," he said. "We are keeping an open mind." Jacqui Cheer, the assistant chief constable of Suffolk, made a personal appeal to local sex workers at an earlier press conference. "Your welfare is my priority," she said. "My message to you is simple - stay off the streets. If you are out alone at night, you are putting yourself in danger." She gave her mobile phone number - 07764 210572 - for local prostitutes to call with any information about the inquiry, "no matter how trivial you think it might be". Police said the third dead woman would be named when formal identification had taken place. It is not clear when she was killed, but the bodies have all been discovered in the last eight days. Mr Gull said the woman was 24 years old and had not been reported missing. Her body would remain where it was found while forensic officers examined the scene. He said the killing could not be formally linked with the murders of Tania Nicol, 19, and Gemma Adams, 25, whose naked bodies were found in a stream near Ipswich, but "the facts speak for themselves". "Clearly this is a deeply disturbing development," he said. Ms Clennell, reported missing by a friend, was also asked to contact the inquiry team. "We know that Paula uses a number of addresses in Ipswich and we are currently checking these to establish her whereabouts," Mr Gull said. "We would urge Paula or anyone who knows of her whereabouts to call us immediately so that we can be reassured that she is safe and well." Concern has grown that the killer could also be behind a string of other murders and disappearances across East Anglia. Ms Nicol vanished from the red light area by Ipswich Town FC's Portman Road ground on October 31. She was reported missing by her mother, Kerry, who did not know she was working as a prostitute. The teenager's body was found on Friday in Belstead brook, five miles from Portman Road. Ms Adams vanished early on November 15. Her boyfriend reported her missing after she failed to respond to his text messages. Her body was discovered by a fishery warden on December 2. The murders have terrified prostitutes in the town and fewer than usual were believed to be working at the weekend.Police investigating the murder of three prostitutes by a suspected serial killer in Ipswich said today that two more women were missing, and warned the town's sex workers to stay off the streets. Officers named the first missing woman as Paula Clennell, 24, who was last seen late on Saturday. Reports of her disappearance followed the discovery by motorists of a third body in woodland in Nacton, near Ipswich. All the women were working as prostitutes, according to police.