A GP cleared of murdering three patients has admitted hastening their deaths and those of dozens of others in his care, including his own son.Dr Howard Martin, 75, said he gave fatal doses of painkillers to terminally ill patients out of "Christian compassion" and acted in their best interests.His admission comes after he was struck off the medical register for giving 18 vulnerable elderly people excessively high doses of morphine.Martin, of Penmaenmawr, Gwynedd, told the Daily Telegraph that in two cases he administered the lethal injections without consent."I twice helped people die, not because they wanted to die but because they had such dreadful suffering. Everyone else wanted to [die] – they could make that choice," he said.A General Medical Council (GMC) disciplinary panel yesterday ruled that Martin was guilty of serious professional misconduct for violating the rights of the terminally ill patients at his County Durham practice between 1994 and 2004. The panel said his actions were not negligent but down to an "autocratic attitude" in which he believed he was always right and showed no remorse.Martin did not speak about his actions during the GMC hearing, the murder trial or inquests into the deaths of the three men. He acknowledged that his revelations could lead to him "spending the rest of my life in prison".One of those to whom he administered a final injection was his son, Paul, 31, when he was dying from cancer in May 1988."I just promised people that they could die free from pain and with dignity," he told the paper. "Most times patients and relatives were of an accord and wanted the patient to be free from pain and have dignity. In that scenario I would take control by keeping people asleep until they had passed over."Martin was arrested in May 2004 at his practice in Newton Aycliffe, Co Durham – one of his three surgeries – after relatives of an elderly cancer sufferer raised concerns with police after his death. An examination showed high levels of diamorphine in the man's system.The GMC hearing was told that while some of the 18 patients may have had only days or hours to live, in many cases his treatment of them was "completely unacceptable ... with a real possibility of hastening the death of several".One patient, 74-year-old Harry Gittins, may have gone on to recover from oesophageal cancer had Martin not administered 200mg of diamorphine the day before he died.He was subsequently charged with murdering Gittins, along with Frank Moss, 59, and 74-year-old Stanley Weldon, whose bodies were exhumed at separate cemeteries. He was accused of their murders, but acquitted by a jury at Teesside rown ourt in 2005.In March, an inquest into the three men's deaths found the injections he gave to Moss and Gittins were not clinically justified and contributed to their deaths. The three men were patients of Martin when he was a partner at the Jubilee Medical Group, which had surgeries in Newton Aycliffe, Shildon and Eldon.Of the fatal injection he gave his son, Martin said: "What more could I do for him other than make sure he had dignity? ... On Judgment Day I will have to answer to God, and my answer will be this: that I did my best for my patients."Martin told the Daily Telegraph he felt no guilt or remorse, and wanted a reform of the care system in Britain to afford people the "dignity" of dying at home. "A vet would put a dog down," he said. "But under the current system a doctor is not allowed to take positive action to help a patient in a humane way. I don't believe I've killed any patients. I believe I've made them comfortable in their hour of need. But I am deemed to be arrogant because I used my discretion."They want to extrapolate that to say I'm choosing to kill people. It's not like that. The patients are about to die and I want to make sure they are comfortable. How can a so-called caring society not understand that? How can I be reckless with someone who is about to die?"Shipman, who killed an estimated 358 people, once worked as a locum at Martin's practice, according to the Telegraph.Gittins' son, Paul, said he hoped the police would reinvestigate his father's death.He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I don't know what can be done. I think the police should look into it because the evidence that's come up from the coroner's court - because the coroner said my dad would not have died when he did if it wasn't for the high doses of diamorphine - and with what the GMC has come out with, it's evidence that hopefully ... the police could use this and re-look into the case."He said there was no possibility his father had asked the GP to end his life. "My dad was not in any pain and discomfort that day. There was no reason for [Martin] to do what he did. My dad had no intention of wanting to die, definitely not," he said.Steve Field, the chairman of the Royal College of General Practitioners, said he was "horrified" by Martin's admission."And if we are finding patients are suffering unduly we can refer and get expert advice from our palliative care colleagues."There is no excuse for hastening the death of patients and I am absolutely horrified that the doctor seems to indicate in the interview that he actually hastened the death of two patients without their consent. I am speechless."