The crime rate in England and Wales fell by 12% last year, with the chance of becoming a victim now the lowest for more than 20 years, according to the authoritative 2001 British Crime Survey which was published yesterday.Home Office researchers said the figures, which show crime has fallen in England and Wales by a third over the past five years, represented a "historic departure" from the underlying trend of a 5% average annual rise over the past century. Tony Blair and the home secretary, David Blunkett, celebrated by inviting officers from Britain's two most successful police forces, South Wales and Northumbria, to Downing Street to discuss anti-crime schemes. The official figures from the survey, which is carried out every two years and asks people about their experience of offences, indicates that 2000 saw the largest annual fall since the survey started in 1981. Crimes which showed a fall included violent offences, by 19%, burglary by 17%, and car-related thefts by 11%. The survey also shows that 27% of adults were victims of some sort of crime in the past year - down from 39% in 1995, when the crime rate peaked. The data, backed by the annual police recorded figures, has shown that although crime has been falling for the past five years it has not been matched by public perceptions. A clear majority of people remain pessimistic about crime and still believe it is rising, and thus overestimate the likelihood of becoming a victim. "There is a glimmer of a change," said Professor Paul Wiles, the Home Office research director. "The proportion of people believing crime has risen 'a lot' over the previous two years has declined, suggesting the picture of declining crime over recent years is gradually being recognised." Home Office researchers believe the state of the economy, with low levels of unemployment, may have contributed to the fall in the levels of property crime such. The survey said it was possible that the nature of crime is changing, moving away from household crimes such as burglary or vehicle theft to new types of crime such as fraud, the internet, stalking and sexual abuse. The Home Office says improved car and home security, including more use of alarms and locks, as well as local crime reduction and policing initiatives have played a part in cutting crime. Prof Wiles said crime had risen on average by 5% a year over the past century. "We've now a range of years where that hasn't happened. We hope we have, at last, got to the end of the ever-increasing crime rates. If that trend continues, it will be unprecedented." The findings are based on the first 9,000 interviews for the 2001 British Crime Survey, which will include interviews with 40,000 people when completed next summer.But officials warned about some of the survey's more detailed findings, saying they might be based on too small a sample. The survey says the number of robberies fell by 22% over the past year while the police recorded crime figures show it rose by 21%. The Home Office said this was probably because the survey did not interview those aged 16 and under and that much of the rise in robberies was due to mobile phone thefts among young teenagers. The survey confirms that young men are five times more likely to become victims of violent crime than the national average, while the risks for people over 65 are extremely low with only 0.5% of the age group attacked last year. The survey estimates that almost 13m crimes were committed in England and Wales in 2000 - about four times the rate reported to the police and officially recorded by them.