A man convicted of a murder 30 years ago could learn shortly whether his long battle to have the case reopened has been successful. His supporters claim that he is the victim of one of Britain's longest-running miscarriages of justice.In September 1975 Beatrice "Biddy" Gold was shot dead in the basement office of the clothing business she ran with her husband in Clerkenwell, east London. The following year a 30-year-old South African-born armed robber called Errol "John" Heibner was convicted of her murder and jailed for life. Now aged 60, he is free after having served more than a quarter of a century in prison, and is still striving to prove his innocence.This year the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) decided there were insufficient grounds to refer his case back to the court of appeal but now, as a result of "confidential information" passed to it, it confirmed this week it is reconsidering the decision and is inviting fresh representations from Mr Heibner.On September 8 1975 Mrs Gold had been at the office with her husband Eric and their colleague Sheila Brown. At the end of the day Mr Gold and Ms Brown went shopping.When they returned to the office Mrs Gold was dead, shot three times with a .32 revolver.Mr Heibner was known to police as a criminal operating in the area. Born in Cape Town, he had come to London as a boy with his father after his mother died. After service in the merchant navy he was sent to Borstal for a street robbery in London in 1963, then became a professional criminal. At the time of the murder he was facing a 15-year sentence for an armed robbery which he had admitted.Their suspect was brought in. His then girlfriend was interviewed, and, Mr Heibner says, told that if she did not cooperate she would lose custody of her child. She made a statement, later withdrawn. The suspect signed a confession because he said he wanted to get her and others out of trouble. The case against him rested on his confession, which he retracted.His appeal against conviction was heard in 1978. It was dismissed, but Lord Justice Shaw suggested the home secretary should undertake an investigation. "The original investigation was fatally flawed," Mr Heibner's solicitor, Rhona Friedman, said yesterday. "We will be asking for more time to present further evidence to the CCRC."Mr Heibner is not short of prominent figures who believe in his innocence. The Rev Nick Stacey, former director of social servives for Kent, met him in Maidstone prison and became convinced of his innocence. Mr Stacey wrote to two successive home secretaries on his behalf. Lord Ramsbotham, former chief inspector of prisons, has also pressed his case.The CCRC confirmed it had extended the time for evidence to be submitted until today.