Talk of the Englishmen defending his castle provokes such a rush of blood to the Conservative head that judgment disappears. Last week Munir Hussain was sent to prison for inflicting violent vengeance on a particularly vicious burglar, and now Chris Grayling has said he wants to rip up the reasonable force test that restricts self-defence. The shadow home secretary's proposal is a populist perennial, but one that never quite blooms, as it makes no sense.Allowing anything more than reasonable force self-evidently means sanctioning unreasonable violence. That is never ethical, and Strasbourg case law suggests it may run risks which would breach the right to life. Mr Grayling has made much of his contempt for human rights legislation, so this will not deter him from having a go. But what should give him pause for thought, if he only took the time to read it, is the letter of the current law. Section 76 of the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008 codifies the traditional common law, and it squarely gives the benefit of the doubt to people defending themselves and their homes.Self-defence pleas are presumed to be valid until prosecutors prove otherwise. Force can be lawfully deployed in response to real fears, even if these are not borne out in the end, and even if they arise unreasonably. The boundaries of "reasonable" are defined commonsensically. The law is explicit: those called on to defend themselves "may not be able to weigh to a nicety the exact measure of necessary action", which is legalise for saying that decent people can lose control in the heat of the moment.These safeguards are so tough that it is tricky to go beyond them without licensing extra-judicial executions. Hideous as the actions of the armed burglars were towards the Hussain family, it is worth recalling that it was not a gaggle of liberal lawyers but a dozen members of the public who determined that the retaliation had gone beyond self-defence. A man, albeit a bad man, was beaten so badly beaten with a cricket bad, that it ended up in several pieces, and he ended up brain damaged.The important thing is that such dreadful provocation should be recognised as a mitigating factor in sentencing. The judge gave Hussain 30 months, compared to a baseline of five years plus for violence so extreme. Further mitigation might have been appropriate, but it is not likely in a culture of minimum sentences for some crimes and ever-tougher guidelines for many others. The irony is that the very same politicians who champion people's right to fight back also lead the charge for tying judges' hands in ways that force them to be tough. Sadly, there is no reasonableness test on the force of the argument, in the context of criminal justice.