A father of two was run down and dragged 40 metres along a road underneath a car as he tried to stop thieves from stealing a radio from his van, police said yesterday. Detectives were last night hunting two people over the death of Balbir Matharu, 54, who had serious internal injuries and died from "multiple blunt trauma".The police said they were looking for a green Ford Mondeo that was seen racing from the scene in Francis Street, Stratford, east London.The daylight hit-and-run took place on Thursday last week. Police said no one had yet come forward with information on the car or its passengers, although statements had been taken from people in the area.Mr Matharu was reported to have parked his Mercedes van in Francis Street shortly before midday and walked into the back yard of the builders' merchants where he worked, then realised his vehicle was being broken into. The thieves smashed the passenger window and tried to steal his stereo.Detective Chief Inspector John Macdonald said: "Mr Matharu ... tried to stop the Mondeo from leaving. He was right in front of the car. Whoever was behind the wheel tried to edge forward. They must have then accelerated and knocked Mr Matharu over. He was dragged along the road under the car for about 40 metres. The marks on the road confirm that."Mr Macdonald said the thieves had "made off north along Francis Street and turned left into Maryland Street". He said Mr Matharu's injuries were "very serious and what you would expect from being hit by a car that has gone from a standing start to increasing its speed".He added: "The driver of the car will have known exactly what happened. They would have known he was under the car and that a few moments later he came out from underneath it. It wasn't an accident, it was intentional. The family is incredibly upset and want to know who has done this and why. They have yet to view the body. They are shocked and it is totally out of the ordinary for them to have any dealings with the police. It's an absolute tragedy ... The van is of huge importance in terms of forensics."Mr Matharu's wife and his daughter, who work close to where the incident took place, were among the first people on the scene. After hearing the commotion they went on to the street and found Mr Matharu bleeding and badly injured in the road. He was taken by ambulance to Newham general hospital, where he died just before 5pm.A postmortem was held on Friday at East Ham mortuary.Mr Matharu, of Forest Gate, who originated from Punjab, India, moved from Leicester to east London a few years ago. Mr Macdonald ruled out the possibility that he knew his killers. "Whoever did this thieves from other cars. Only a radio was stolen, it was ... nothing special."Mr Matharu's son returned from abroad to be with his family.