New forensic evidence to be presented by one of Europe's leading fingerprint experts may clear a woman convicted of the murder of her aunt 21 years ago. Susan May was found guilty in 1993 of murdering her 87-year-old aunt, Hilda Marchbank. Marchbank was found dead in her bed at home, in Royton, Lancashire. She had been beaten and then suffocated with her pillow.The police initially believed the death was the result of a robbery gone wrong. But May was charged with the killing after police said they found her fingerprints in bloodstains on the walls of Marchbank's bedroom. An expert at May's trial told the jury that the stains included the victim's blood and their presence on the wall meant the murderer had "felt his, or her, way along the wall" suggesting the crime had been committed in the dark.May, 68, was sentenced to life imprisonment, with a recommendation she serve a minimum of 12 years. She was released in 2005, becoming one of the first life sentence prisoners who deny their crime to do so.But now a report by the former head of the national fingerprint service of the Netherlands, Arie Zeelenberg, has concluded there was no evidence that the finger marks, attributed to Susan May, were placed in blood. He said: "There is overwhelming evidence that they were not comprised of blood but of sweat and a minor residue of another unknown substance."He also maintained that the marks on the wall were made before Marchbank's murder.The report came after Zeelenberg studied high-resolution negatives of photographs of the crime scene supplied to him by the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC).Zeelenberg said the technique used by the expert the prosecution relied on at trial to demonstrate the marks were made in blood was faulty. He said the "mistakes led them to the wrong conclusions".In 2009, the former head of Hampshire CID, Des Thomas, produced a report criticising the tactics used by police to investigate May.Thomas said a "disinterested observer may conclude that some evidence had been manipulated to construct a case against Susan May". He added that a "number of police witnesses may have adjusted their evidence to fit a desired rather than valid outcome".Last year, the Guardian traced a witness who said police tried to persuade him to lie in order to "eliminate" a red Ford Fiesta car, seen at the murder scene the night Hilda Marchbank was killed.Police failed to disclose this evidence to the defence team and hid the fact they considered a local man a "good suspect" for the murder, after the car's sighting and an anonymous phone call naming him as the killer.The man, Michael Rawlinson, a heroin addict, had access to a red Fiesta and was known to police as a robber who targeted elderly people. Rawlinson was murdered in a drugs dispute in 2001. The original investigation records state, wrongly, that the car was never traced.May says the the word "blood" has haunted her case."Judges have referred to it, the prosecution's experts did, as have journalists and the CCRC. We have always known there was no scientific evidence to back up the blood claim and, when you are innocent, it is horrendous to keep being told something you know is incorrect. Now, at last, an expert has looked closely at this and not been influenced by prior misconceptions," she said.She said she was grateful to Zeelenberg, "who has put in so many hours working on this for me".May added: "I sincerely hope now the CCRC will see fit to refer my case back to the court of appeal. The report undermines the whole prosecution case and can end my nightmare."May's claim to be innocent has been rejected twice by the appeal court. Last year, the CCRC invited her to submit another claim.A spokesman for the CCRC said it was considering Zeelenberg's report and had instructed another forensic expert to evaluate the Dutch expert witness's findings. He said: "This is normal practice and is not aimed at finding fault with Zeelenberg's analysis."We continue to work as quickly as we can and we are making good progress with the investigation."