A woman who laced her former lover's curry with poison when she found out he was planning to marry a younger woman was sentenced to a minimum of 23 years today for what the judge said was a "cold and calculating" murder.The court heard Lakhvir Singh, 45, slipped into the house in Feltham, Middlesex, that her lover of 16 years, Lakhvinder Cheema, shared with his fiancee and spiked a curry in the fridge with Indian aconite – known as the queen of poisons.Cheema, 39, and his fiancee, Gurjeet Choongh, 21, ate the meal as they discussed plans for their imminent wedding. Within hours, Cheema was dead after having a second helping and Choongh, 21, was fighting for her life in hospital.Today Choongh was in court as Singh was sentenced to life in prison by Judge Paul Worsley at the Old Bailey. "You were not just a spurned lover, you did not explode in anger at your rejection. You set about a cold and calculating revenge," he said. "Your actions came as close as may be to claiming the lives of two people on the verge of a new life together."Singh, of Southall, west London, was found guilty of murdering Cheema and of causing Choongh grievous bodily harm with intent, but was cleared of attempting to murder her.Sir Desmond de Silva, defending Singh, said: "[She] will pay for a lifetime of having to live with the fact that, by killing the one she loved, she has almost extinguished the very reason for her own existence – the burning love she had for the deceased."Singh appeared close to tears as the judge sentenced her to life in prison and told her she would not be eligible for release for at least 23 years.Choongh, who watched proceedings from the public gallery, said she was still struggling to cope with the fall-out from the poisoning."It preys on my mind all the time," she said in a witness statement. "The time I spent in hospital was a very difficult time for me. I did not speak English, my family were not with me to take care of me and I felt completely isolated."I still do not feel fully recovered and I believe it will affect me for the rest of my life. For several months the doctors were not sure whether or not it would have a long term effect on my internal organs. This gave me a lot of tension and I am still under a lot of stress." Choongh said she and Cheema had been making the final preparations for the wedding when Singh struck."Even though I knew him only three-and-a-half months, he had a very important place in my life. Now my life without him is extremely hard. The poisoning led to Lakhvinder's death and took me to the brink of death."Cheema's sister, Narinder Singh, said his death had rocked the family."We do not know what Lakhvinder was going through as I was unable to speak to him in his last moments. When my brother was alive he could not bear to see me crying. Now I am left to cry for the rest of my life."Outside court, Detective Inspector Tony Bishop, said the sentence "reflects the severity of the crime".