As Gordon Brown has discovered, political actions can have unintended consequences. And so it is that a government attempt to improve the prosecution of paedophiles may make it easier for David Cameron to be elected. Let me explain. There exists a notorious photograph of the Tory leader alongside the new mayor of London posing in tailcoats at a gathering of the toxic Oxford rightwing drinking club, the Bullingdon, whose members also included the current shadow chancellor of the exchequer. Conveniently for the ambitious Tories involved, the photographer now refuses to allow the picture to be published. But some newspapers - and, we might guess, future Labour election material - circumvent this censorship by printing sketched or painted representations of the original image.However, if the justice minister Maria Eagle is successful, anyone who prints impressions of Cameron of the Bullingdon could be legally regarded as being in possession of the image itself. Under planned legislation, Eagle hopes to imprison for up to three years those found possessing drawings or computer-generated images of child abuse. The change in the law would collapse the existing distinction between material showing actual abuse of actual children and simulated or imagined pictures.Let's be clear that Eagle, though wrong, is not mad. The loophole she identifies is a real one. The Justice Ministry will have been influenced by recent cases in America in which those in possession of revolting paedophile images were cleared because their lawyers were able to show that the images seized from hard drives might have been fantasies created in cyberspace rather than situations filmed in a warehouse in New Jersey. So there's little doubt that sick and twisted people are benefitting from the possibilities of new technology.Yet the reason that American attorneys have been able to use this defence is that in 2002 the US supreme court struck down an attempted federal ban on offensive computer-generated images. The judgment argued that such a prohibition restricted free expression.Even in Britain, a nation with less instinctive commitment to liberty, a similar divide between fantasy and enactment has prevailed. For instance, the law has always distinguished between snuff films, in which people are actually raped or murdered, and popular movies, in which people pretend to violate and kill. The separation is not absolute and so a system of age certification exists in an attempt to restrict access to such material, although tighter controls are clearly needed for video games and online products.But what the distinction between snuff and blockbusters acknowledges is that it is impossible to totally control triggers to misbehaviour. The photographer Nan Goldin intends her pictures of young children as art but, to the wrong mind, they could bring a different, darker pleasure. John Lennon was killed because someone had misread JD Salinger; Ronald Reagan was shot because someone else had an unintended response to the movie Taxi Driver. The Accused is a movie that abhors rape and The Woodsman a film that criticises paedophilia, and yet it might be possible for a viewer with opposite intentions to get their kicks.But these unwanted consequences are a risk we take for free artistic expression. It is right and vital that no art of any kind should involve the actual abuse of children. But if people are jailed for an image they have made with a pencil or Photoshop software then we have allowed the state to patrol imagination in such a way that 2008 would have to be renamed 1984.Because, inevitably, it would not just be paedophiles who were stopped. It's a horribly appropriate coincidence that this legislation should have been floated on the day that the BBC screened a drama about Mary Whitehouse. As a sideshow to her attacks on TV, that furious puritan once tried to jail a theatre director, Michael Bogdanov, on the basis that simulated anal rape on the stage of the National Theatre was no different from actually coercing buggery in public. She failed, but the government now gives her successors the chance of waiving solemn legal precedent for the opinion that a representation is indistinguishable from an event.Nothing will prevent the existence and activities of paedophiles. So better, surely, that their depravities are enacted in their computers or imaginations than in reality. And even better that we do not open up to moralists and busy-bodies the argument that simulation is no different from reality: whether the Bullingdon snap or an erotic movie.The ingenuity of the human mind allows both the creation of art and the misuse of images. The twisted mind will always find loopholes - and the government has correctly identified one - but, if closing a loophole threatens other legitimate forms of expression, then it is wrong. The Eagle scheme is like some brilliant new mousetrap which, while annihilating some mice, also takes out the family cat and the songbirds sitting innocently on the kitchen windowsill. Perverse legislation is not the right response to perverts.comment@theguardian.com