The woman who claimed Chris Langham took her virginity at 14 was "sick", the actor told a court today.Langham - who is also charged with downloading child pornography - denied having a lust for young girls, Maidstone crown court heard.The 58-year-old claimed his alleged victim, who is now 25, jokingly told him she wanted to kill his children and had violent fantasies about him punching her in the face.Prosecutor Richard Barraclough QC suggested Langham was "prepared to torture her by making outrageous allegations against her". However, the actor said: "She's a sick person - I've never made any allegations against her."I mean that in a completely compassionate way. It's not a criticism or judgment. I can't say I like her very much, but everybody deserves compassion."The jury has heard that Langham gave acting lessons to the woman in his dressing room when he was starring in Les Miserables in the West End of London. She claims she lost her virginity to him at a hotel in the capital shortly afterwards.The actor said his arrest on child porn charges in November 2005 had troubled the woman. "She was very upset by the charges ... and she said she thought I was guilty," he added. "She wanted to know if my relationship with her was not affected by a sexual interest in children."He said the woman was also worried that "I was looking at her in that way", adding: "I was able to say that I wasn't."Mr Barraclough asked: "Were you frightened that this girl was going to go to the police and complain about the sexual activity you'd had with her as a child?" Langham replied: "No."He was arrested 10 months later for allegedly having underage sex with her, and said it was a "terrifying" experience. He had previously admitted there was sexual contact between them when she was 18, and said he regretted it.When asked why he offered her free theatre tickets after this, he told the jury: "The thing you have to remember is I have always been fond of her. She was a terribly frail person."The prosecutor suggested Langham had been a father figure to her. The actor said: "I hope there was love and affection between us ... there's nothing dishonourable about that."When asked why he thought she had told her best friend and a doctor that she had sex with him, he replied: "I think I'm the only person who didn't do anything to her. I tried to behave in an honourable way with her."Mr Barraclough said the defence had suggested to the jury that the woman had made the allegations against Langham because she was unable to cope with him rejecting her. He responded: "I don't know what she's saying. I'm only here to speak my own truth."Langham, of Golford, near Cranbrook in Kent, denies 15 counts of making an indecent photograph of a child between September and November 2005.He also denies six counts of indecent assault and two counts of buggery between January 1996 and April 2000. Four further counts of indecent assault were dropped after the Crown accepted there was no evidence to support them.