A family doctor already accused of killing eight women was remanded in custody yesterday and charged with killing seven more patients.Harold Shipman, aged 52, of Mottram, Greater Manchester, spoke only to confirm his name, address and to indicate that he understood the charges when he appeared in a five-minute hearing before Tameside magistrates at Ashton-under-Lyne. The new charges com ein connection with the deaths of Muriel Grimshaw, aged 76, Norah Nuttall, aged 65, Laura Wagstaff, aged 81, Maureen Alice Ward, aged 57, Pamela Hilier, aged 68, Marie West, aged 81, and Lizzie Adams, aged 77. All were patients at Dr Shipman's one-man practice in Hyde, Greater Manchester. All the bodies except that of Mrs Grimshaw were cremated. 'We will not enter into speculation about whether there will be any further charges or whether we have drawn a line under the inquiry now,' said Detective Superintendent Bernard Postles, who is leading the inquiry. Dr Shipman was arrested in August after the daughter of one of the first eight alleged victims contacted police. There followed a series of exhumations at cemeteries in and around Hyde. Dr Shipman worked at the one-man practice for five years. He had previously worked in a local group practice. His wife, Primrose, was in the public gallery at the court yesterday for a hearing in which the defence made no application to have reporting restrictions lifted. The doctor, a father of four, was committed for trial on the charge of murdering Mrs Grimshaw and will next appear at a plea and directions hearing at Manchester Crown Court next Monday. He will be committed to the crown court on the six other charges on March 11 and 12. Mrs Grimshaw died on July 14 1997, Mrs Nuttall on January 26 last year, Laura Wagstaff on December 9 1997, and Pamela Hillier on February 9 last year. Maureen Ward, a former college lecturer, died on February 18 last year. The trial is expected on Mrs Adams, a retired sewing machinist died on February 28 1997. Marie West, who died on March 6 1995, ran a clothes shop in Hyde. At previous court hearings in Liverpool and Preston, Dr Shipman pleaded not guilty to murdering Kathleen Grundy, aged 81, a fomer mayoress of Hyde; Winifred Mellor, aged 73; Joan Melia, aged 73; and Bianka Pomphret, aged 49. He is also charged with killing Jean Lilley, aged 58, Ivy Lomas, aged 63, Marie Quinn, aged 67, and Irene Turner, aged 67, and with forging Grundy's will and two letters in June last year. 