It has been a difficult week for Becky John. First there was Republican congressman Todd Akin's suggestion that in cases of "legitimate" rape women rarely get pregnant because "the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down".Then George Galloway dismissed the act of having sex with a woman as she slept – one of the allegations made against Julian Assange – as nothing more than "bad sexual etiquette" if the pair had already had sex the night before. "Not everybody needs to be asked prior to each insertion," the Respect MP said.John, who was raped at the age of 15 by a man whose home she had gone to voluntarily, has become used to hearing public figures reveal astonishing views about sexual violence; last year she was incensed when the justice secretary, Kenneth Clarke, talked about "serious" rape involving "violence and an unwilling woman". But she, frontline workers and academics in the field all say there is nothing unusual about the sentiments they express."It made me feel sick," John, now 36, says of her initial reaction to Galloway's comments. "Like: 'Oh crap, here we are again.' The ideas society has about rape are staggering. Obviously people are not clear what it is and isn't, or we wouldn't be having these conversations."Research suggests she is right. In a poll of people in London carried out for the Havens, the capital's trio of flagship sexual assault referral centres, one in ten said they didn't believe it was rape if a man made his partner have sex when they didn't want to. Another 18% weren't sure.Rape within marriage became a crime in 1991. Yet crime figures show more than half of rapes are perpetrated by former or current partners, and prosecutors say convictions are far harder to secure in cases where the defendant and complainant have sexual history."There is still, in some areas, the feeling that a woman within an established relationship has a duty to accept sex," says an independent sexual violence advisor at Birmingham's Rape and Sexual Violence Project, speaking anonymously. We don't have lots of cases like that but I've definitely come across it."Galloway's suggestion that once you've had sex with someone once, you don't need to ask every time, plays out on jury panels too, lawyers say. "The general public are very easily persuaded, I'm afraid, that in the context of a long-standing relationship there's a presumption of consent," says Miranda Moore QC, a barrister with wide experience of both prosecuting and defending rape cases.Jane Bickerstaff QC, a longtime specialist rape prosecutor, says: "There's an element with juries where they think: 'I don't care, there's no harm done. They've had sex hundreds and hundreds of times before, why is public money being spent on this?'"On Galloway's idea that waking a sleeping partner to ask for sex is not necessary if you've already had sex, the law is clear: he's wrong. The Sexual Offences Act 2003 clarified the law on rape, listing circumstances – including being asleep – where the consent and "reasonable belief" in it on the part of the perpetrator are presumed to be absent.In another survey for the Havens focusing on 18 to 25-year-olds, one in 20 men said they would try to have sex with someone if they thought that person was asleep. A total of 3% said they would assume consent if their partner was sleeping.Bickerstaff says she sees a surprising amount of cases where women say they woke up to find their boyfriend or husband having sex with them. "It's much more frequent than you'd think," she says. "You also get a surprising amount where they've been for a night out and got drunk and she will say: 'I just passed out on the bed, I didn't even bother to take my knickers off and the next think I knew I'd come round and he was having sex with me.'"Misconceptions appear even greater among the young. In the second Havens survey only three quarters of men agreed that rape had been committed when one person has said no. Almost a fifth of those polled said they'd expect someone they'd had sex with before to do it again; among 18 and 19-year-olds, 17% had been pressured into sex because there had been previous sexual contact and 9% of young women had said no to sex but been ignored.There is disturbing evidence of how sex is viewed in the most extreme situations. Race on the Agenda's study on the effect of gang violence on young women and girls found that participants believed there were occasions where women gave up their rights to consent: if they had already had sex with two gang members, for example, they effectively had consented to sex with the wider group, and were referred to as "battery chicks".Such is the confusion among the public about what constitutes rape some women are unsure themselves whether they count as victims, says Lesley McMillan, a reader in sociology and criminology at Glasgow Caledonian University. She tracked a year's worth of rape cases reported to police in one area to find out why so many cases drop out of the criminal justice process before trial.One woman who had not reported her rape told McMillan: "I wasn't really sure in my head what had happened, because we'd being going out for so long did I have the right to say no?" The reported cases included incidents where women had been sleeping and were equally uncertain. McMillan says: "Women would be saying things like: 'I had sex with him last night, is it OK for me to report this?' The police are very much trying to put forward the message that, yes, this is rape."Of the 408 cases she tracked, the vast majority – 90% – were of women being raped by someone they knew. More than a quarter involved a man with whom they were either in a sexual relationship or had been previously, including boyfriends and husbands. These women were the group most likely to withdraw from the process: among the 105 women, 45% did so. Barely a tenth of the 105 cases ended up with charges being brought."Many women don't tell anyone at all about rape and it's largely because of fear about how people will treat them, and whether attitudes exactly like Galloway's will be part of it," McMillan says."His comments will work against efforts to encourage women to come forward who are unsure about how seriously something will be taken – for example in cases where people know each other, or where alcohol has been consumed."I also think there's a risk that for some men it may legitimate their behaviour. In the case files we worked with a lot of them were saying 'I had sex with her the night before, why shouldn't I do it again?' and not realising you should seek consent. It's almost like a presumed right of access."If you have that kind of message coming from an elected representative a lot of crucial work can be undermined."Bickerstaff fears Galloway's remarks won't help juries understand rape better either. "There are most definitely preconceptions and prejudice among members of the public and unfortunately this sort of public ranting simply fuels those misconceptions and biases," she says.Other myths persist in the system: research by academics at the universities of Nottingham and Leeds using "mock juries" found jurors had a poor understanding of the ways women might react to rape, with many wrongly assuming they would fight back, have serious physical injuries, report the offence immediately or appear tearful and distressed when recounting their experiences in court.Guidance given to jurors about such issues by a judge or expert witness made them more likely to accept delay in reporting and a calm response under cross-examination, but they still expected women to have resisted strenuously and be injured as a result."The man who raped me repeatedly didn't have to hit me, or hold me down," Becky John says. "He'd told me the area was so dangerous that if I left without him I'd get shot. I was terrified; I knew I didn't have a choice. The idea that if someone's not crying and screaming, it's not violent, or not rape, makes me so angry."I didn't call it rape when it happened because I didn't think it was. I thought rape was strangers with knives hiding in the dark. I now know that the majority of rapes are committed by people the victim knows. But a lot of people still don't, and these myths are perpetuated by people like Galloway."We need, sensibly and calmly, to just start saying 'no consent equals rape'."