The belief that private sector companies are inherently more efficient at delivering public services has been attacked as a myth. Research shows savings are only achieved by cutting pay and conditions.Health and education, for example, now have a raft of different partnerships with the private sector, from small-scale, local outsourcing through to huge private finance initiatives to build and maintain schools, libraries, roads and hospitals. But research from Sanjiv Sachdev of the Kingston Business School, and published by the leftwing thinktank Catalyst, says savings from using the private sector are not being gained from more innovative management. Private contractors are employing more old-fashioned methods, such as shorter holidays, lower pay and worse pensions. "Despite the rhetoric, if they couldn't cut pay and conditions, they wouldn't be interested," he says. Mr Sachdev has used staff in the prison service as case studies, comparing new contracts in new-build private prisons with existing state sector contracts. And he says that in privately run prisons, average basic pay is 30 per cent lower. He also found that the average contracted working week was two hours longer and that annual leave was 20 to 23 days per year, rather than 25 to 33 days in the public sector. The biggest savings, he says, are in pensions, with the privatised staff not having access to a final salary scheme, which has become an increasingly valuable benefit of the state sector. When all these factors are combined, Mr Sachdev says the difference becomes even more stark - with estimates that privatised staff are up to 70 per cent worse off. Mr Sachdev says that even after years of researching in this field, he was taken aback by his own findings. If the government or a public sector employer wanted to drive down wages so extremely, they would face a storm of protest. But by using a private company which recruits new staff on a separate contract, it outsources the political difficulty as well as the service. Whether such a difference in pay and benefits exists in other types of public/private partnerships is not easy to ascertain. The director of Catalyst, Martin McIvor, says such deals should be open to more public scrutiny so that people could really see how their money was being spent and savings achieved. At the moment, he says, without the government giving any evidence to the contrary, the suspicion is that services are only being delivered more cheaply because staff are getting a worse deal. "There has been a prevalent belief that competition makes the private sec tor more efficient - and public services are featherbedded. But when we see the evidence, this seems more dubious," he says. If the "magic touch is only cutting pay for new staff and pulling the plug on pensions, he suggests that the credibility of such public/private deals will be jeopardised. And he called on the government to put in regulations to stop privatised contractors lowering pay and conditions. "Then we could have a fair test to see what we could learn from the private sector," he says. Trade unions have had a longstanding complaint that contracting out services creates a "two-tier workforce", with some staff protected by in-house, public sector agreements. In practice, says public sector union, Unison, the savings and profit margins come from "cutting corners", either on conditions or staffing levels, but with the aim of driving down the wages bill.