More than half the growing number of elderly and infirm prisoners held in Wakefield top security jail claim they have been bullied or victimised by staff, according to a report from the chief inspector of prisons published today.Wakefield prison in West Yorkshire holds 160 inmates over 50, 46 of them in their sixties or older, and two-thirds of them complained in a confidential survey that they felt unsafe in the jail. Other prisoners also testified to the existence of what they called the Wakefield Way: the disrespectful and even intimidatory behaviour of some prison officers. Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, says that there is "an atmosphere of disengagement amounting to disrespect" at Wakefield, a prison holding people convicted of the most serious crimes, most of them sex offences. She agrees that Wakefield is "a prison run by the psychology department," but says that it is large and the staff are highly motivated. It conducts an intensive and high quality programme working on the offending behaviour of inmates. But Ms Owers says she found a prison where there is an undercurrent of "over-control" and disrespect, particularly towards elderly prisoners, and that there was too little positive interaction between staff and inmates. The chief inspector says that any prisoners moving inside the secure perimeter fence outside main movement times were handcuffed without any assessment of the likely risk they posed. Prison officers line the route when inmates move between the wings. Top security prisoners were also automatically accompanied by a dog. "We observed one handcuffed prisoner on crutches," she reports. Ms Owers reports that half the prisoners told them that the staff never spoke to them when they were on association. "Forty-five percent of all prisoners told us that they had felt unsafe in the prison, and this rose to 65% for elderly prisoners aged over 60," she says. Prisoners held in the segregation unit consistently referred to a climate of bullying and intimidation in the segregation unit and there had been formal investigations into a few allegations of assault. Ms Owers says that those leading the inquiries did not have access to CCTV evidence because the cameras in the unit were not run continuously to provide an objective record but were only switched on when somebody was being removed. The director-general of the prison service, Phil Wheatley, said Wakefield held some of the most dangerous prisoners who, despite advancing age, would represent a grave risk to the public if they were freed. "It is challenging to get the balance between care and control right. Without firm control, it is difficult to prevent escape or to make the prison safe for staff and prisoners. The chief inspector's criticisms of over-control will be considered carefully, but nothing will be allowed to put at risk a high level of control with such a risky population," he said.