Almost 900 police stations in England and Wales have closed in the past 14 years, the government said today.The vast majority of those still in use are open to the public for only limited hours, with most closing at night. The closures figure could be even higher because some forces, including the Metropolitan and West Midlands police, have only provided numbers in recent years. However, 376 police stations have opened since 1992, meaning the net loss in March this year was 504. "Since 1992, 880 police stations have closed and 376 have opened," a Home Office spokeswoman said."It is not entirely odd, given that the emphasis is on getting officers on the streets rather than keeping stations open that aren't fulfilling as useful a purpose as they were. "It is a matter for police authorities whether to keep a police station open or not. Things they take into account are whether a police station has deteriorated and whether a location isn't as useful as it used to be. They don't do it without taking a public survey first." In the early hours of Saturday morning, businessman Stephen Langford died after being attacked by a gang of youths near a police station in Henley-on-Thames, Oxfordshire. The station was closed to the public at the time, but officers ran out of it when a member of the public alerted them to the assault. However, they were too late to catch the attackers.Of the 880 closures, a total of 516 were under Labour and 364 under John Major's Conservative government, while of the 376 police stations that have opened since 1992, 298 opened under Labour and 78 under the Conservatives. In March this year, there were 1,758 police stations in England and Wales. "Increasing public awareness that police stations are often not open after dark comes on top of government cuts to the promised number of police community support officers and withdrawal of Home Office funding for the single non-emergency number," the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, told the Daily Telegraph."These cutbacks hamper the ability of the police to be as accessible to the public as they need to be to deliver effective, visible policing."