It is the port that powers London. Tilbury Docks, a vast, sprawling city built out of shipping containers boasting 16 working terminals, 7.5km of quayside and more than 500,000 square metres of warehouses. It squats at the mouth of the Thames, an unwelcoming hinterland that seems to belong in some dystopian future. For those entering Britain in search of a better life, it is hardly an auspicious place to disembark.But whatever hope that 35 illegal migrants, seven of whom are believed to be children, had of forging a new future for themselves ended abruptly in the early hours of Saturday. The limited amount of luck that had got them on to an overnight cargo ship bound to the Essex port from Zeebrugge in Belgium finally ran out.By the time their P&O cargo ship, the 180-metre-long, Dutch-registered Nortstream, had docked 40km outside London, just as dawn was breaking, many of those secreted inside the shipping container were suffering from dehydration and hypothermia. Worse was to come. By the time port workers had been alerted an hour or so later to the sound of screaming inside the container and banging on its door, one migrant was dead and two others were in a serious condition."You get that many people in one container on a ship that's making an eight-hour journey across the North Sea and it's going to end in trouble," said one expert who works for London's ports and asked not to be named. "People think it's the summer, so they'll be OK, but they won't be."Tilbury, which has seen its cargo traffic triple from 14m tonnes in 1985 to 43.5m in 2012, has its fair share of smuggling problems. Drugs hauls, while not huge, are not uncommon. Last April border officials seized cocaine estimated to have a street value of £17m found inside seven holdalls placed on top of a legitimate cargo of tin alloys. The catch was found in two containers dispatched from Senegal and bound for Belgium.But Saturday's tragic events highlighted the potentially fatal trade in another, equally lucrative, commodity: people. The announcement by Essex police that they were launching a homicide investigation brought back memories of 2000, when the bodies of 58 Chinese people were found at Dover in the back of a lorry that had come from Zeebrugge.On this occasion the migrants are believed to be Indian, possibly Punjabi. At a time when politicians on both sides of the Channel are focusing on mainly African migrants in Calais, Saturday's tragedy serves as reminder that the UK's borders can be breached by manifold groups in manifold ways.In the short term, the exposure of a people-smuggling ring will focus attention on Tilbury and its role as a cargo hub, one that is becoming busier as London's appetite for imports shows no sign of abating. Two weeks ago Tilbury, owned by Forth Ports Limited, announced a deal with the port of Zeebrugge to bring in deep-sea shipments from the far east. "The new service connects east and west shipping lanes with the main trade route for London and the south-east," the two ports said in a joint statement.The possibility that the new route was exploited by people smugglers will be one line of inquiry police will pursue. A spokeswoman for P&O said the container holding the migrants arrived on the quay at Zeebrugge on Friday at 6.56pm and was loaded on to the ferry at 8.07pm. Whether the migrants were already in the container when it arrived at the quay will help police establish where to look for the criminal gang believed to be involved in facilitating their trafficking.Tracing the owner of the container and its origin will be crucial in the investigation. Belgian police say they believe the lorry which delivered the container in Zeebrugge has been identified through CCTV footage.Superintendent Trevor Roe, of Essex police, the officer leading the investigation, said the UK Border Agency would be working with the Belgian authorities and Interpol. He confirmed that, as part of the inquiry, all 34 survivors would be interviewed, once interpreters had been found for them and their welfare had been secured."Human trafficking or 'modern-day slavery', it's a big issue," Roe said. "It clearly involves organised crime. Someone is benefiting from this."A central question will be whether those smuggled were trafficked against their will or were duped into entering the UK illegally, possibly with the offer of a nonexistent job. The former scenario appears unlikely, given the presence of children. Another scenario could be the illegal migrants were promised work on the black market, out of sight of immigration officials.Four years ago a series of trials in Belgium revealed a sophisticated people-smuggling network that charged hundreds of Punjabi men some €20,000 (£16,000) to travel to Belgium via Moscow on forged visas. From Brussels they were hidden on lorries bound for the Channel tunnel.Last year Gurmel Singh-Kandola, secretary general of the Sikh Council, said he was aware that Indians from Punjab and Delhi were entering the UK illegally but were unable to work or fund their return without proper documentation."Many of them have been trafficked by unscrupulous agents who take a lot of money from them," Singh-Kandola said. "They are stuck. Their plight is well known; they are sleeping very rough under bridges and in multiple occupancies, sometimes in sheds in the back of people's gardens. We have been quite concerned about the abject poverty in which they are living."A 2009 UN report on the illegal migration of Punjabi workers to the UK, said: "Youths in the region have no employment opportunities. There has been no recruitment in the government. In the private sector also the jobs are few. Moreover, admissions in good institutions are also difficult." It observed that every year 20,000 Punjab youths attempted "irregular migration" from their region, mainly to Europe.On Saturday, on an unloved stretch of the Thames estuary attended by ambulances and police cars, one such attempt ended in the cold, steel shell of a shipping container. "Terrible news from Tilbury," tweeted the local MP, Jackie Doyle-Price. "People take huge risks to enter our country every day. On this occasion it has ended in tragedy."