He has struck at least 11 times and created a sense of fear that has resonated throughout the town.Children's play areas, normally busy during the summer evenings, are deserted. Parents are keeping their youngsters indoors. Many women are so concerned about their safety they will only venture out in small groups. More than 1,300 personal alarms, which emit a piercing noise, have been sold in Rochdale in Greater Manchester in 10 days, and will be given to schoolchildren before the end of the term. The serial sex attacker has so far evaded police, who have brought in a criminal psychologist to build up a detailed profile. High visibility patrols have been stepped up, extra officers drafted in and a major incident room set up. The attacker's victims range from 11-year-old girls to a woman aged 36. Three of the attacks took place within 10 hours last month. In the latest incident, last week, a 17-year-old girl was assaulted as she walked along Hartley Lane in Kirkholt. She was approached from behind by a man who touched her waist. She ran away and the man ran after her. He subsequently grabbed her and pulled her towards him. After a struggle, during which she was indecently assaulted, he ran off. Elie Godsi, a consultant clinical psychologist and the author of the book Violence and Society, said the attacker was acting in a very clumsy manner. "He is not very sophisticated," he said. "It is quite immature. It is quite opportunist. "It sounds as if it is somebody who has either had very poor sexual experience or has been abused and/or has systematic difficulties forming sexual relationships and engaging in normal teenage sexual activity. He may well have suffered other abuses, whether physical or neglect." Mr Godsi said the man probably lived near the area where the attacks took place, or was very familiar with it. He believed the attacker would be caught within two or three months. "It seems like there is a high level of risk associated with what he is doing - he is mostly doing it in the daylight in areas where other members of the public might be. There is a possibility that he wants to get caught. We are dealing with somebody who is clearly not functioning normally." The attacker struck eight times within a week in early June, and is thought to have carried out at least three other attacks. The first attack was in Smallbridge at 7.30pm on June 1, when a 12-year-old girl was pulled into an alleyway and indecently assaulted. The second victim, who was 17, was targeted two days later. The man tried to drag her into bushes, but she escaped. Fifteen minutes later, at about 3.30pm, he approached a 14-year-old girl and indecently assaulted her and tried to pull her into nearby bushes. The fourth victim, aged 22, was attacked at 12.45am on June 5 as she walked home. The two 11-year-olds were indecently assaulted later that day. Lee Durrant, a community safety adviser at Rochdale council, said the council was selling up to 130 personal safety alarms every day. "People are wanting to make sure that they are not the next victim," he said. "It has been widely reported that he doesn't like noise, so they want to buy the alarms because they make as much noise as possible." There have been a series of seminars in the Kirkholt, Hamer and Syke areas - where the attacks have taken place. More than 100 people attended a meeting in Syke on Monday evening. "I can't really recall anything like this happening in Rochdale before," said Mr Durrant. "It is noticeable that there are less children playing out on the streets because their parents are not letting them out. There is one common where around 100 children usually play, but it is totally deserted." Chief Superintendent Terry Sweeney, who is leading the hunt for the attacker, said all available resources were being used into the hunt. "We have a dedicated team of officers working on this investigation and an incident room has been established. "We are currently following through lots of inquiries and we are working with a psychological profiler to build a picture of this man. We can't say that he is from Rochdale - but he does have very good knowledge of the area," he said. The attacker is about 1.72 metres (5ft 8in), with mousy hair, pockmarked skin and an eyebrow piercing. He is slim and thought to be about 19 years old. "We would like to reassure the community that we are doing everything we can to catch this man," Mr Sweeney said. "We have a large number of officers on the case and out on the streets of Rochdale."