Two teenage girls were being questioned last night after a 17-year-old girl was stabbed to death on a London estate. Sian Simpson was killed in Croydon, south London, on Tuesday evening. She had just finished her A-Levels and was hoping to become an accountant.The two girls were arrested at the scene and were yesterday being held at separate south London police stations as the murder investigation began. A Metropolitan police spokesman said they were known to the victim, but refused to confirm the nature of their relationship to her.Police were called to a disturbance in Mann Close, Croydon, just before 8pm on Tuesday. By the time officers arrived Sian had been punched and then stabbed. She was given first aid on the scene by paramedics but was pronounced dead at Mayday hospital.One woman, who lives just yards from the scene, said: "The blade was the only thing you saw. It was the like the biggest one you have in your kitchen." She added: "She was screaming at first. Then she staggered over to some railings. She fell on the floor. It was horrendous."Sian's uncle, Leroy Simpson, 49, said his niece was a family-orientated girl who had just finished her A-levels at a local sixth form college. She was the eldest of five children and lived with her grandmother in Croydon. "It's devastating because she was such a nice kid," he said. Her aunt, Cheryl Simpson, said: "She wanted to be an accountant. She said she used to help her father with his accounts."Speaking yesterday outside Sian's home in south Croydon her cousin, Darren Simpson, said she would be remembered as a happy and peaceful girl. Mr Simpson, 27, said: "She always had a smile on her face. She was a bubbly and chirpy 17-year-old."He added: "It was definitely a tragic accident. She was never in any trouble. If she was the type of teen that got involved with gangs then maybe, but she wasn't."Chief Superintendent Mark Gore, borough commander of Croydon, said: "I would like to take this opportunity to reassure the local community that tragic events such as this remain extremely rare in the town centre and we will continue to work in partnership with the local authority to keep Croydon town centre safe for all those who work and visit here."A note, left with some flowers at the scene of the stabbing, read: "To my bigirl Sian. I love u so much an will never be 4gotten."