David Blunkett could face severe difficulties getting his resurrected pledge to criminalise incitement to religious hatred through parliament, it emerged today.The home secretary revealed in a speech this morning that he would again press ahead with measures to outlaw attacks on religions which "stirred up hatred" along the lines of the existing legislation on inciting racial hatred.However, this morning the Conservatives announced they would not be backing such a proposal, while Labour peers in the Lords predicted it would be "very difficult" to get it through parliament.And the measure - which was rejected by peers when Mr Blunkett tried to introduce it two years ago - did not even find favour with some Muslim groups, who predicted the law could be used against religious minorities, rather than protecting them.Ahead of his speech to the Institute of Public Policy Research, Mr Blunkett insisted his proposals were needed to "fill a gap". "The gap is where you don't have ethnicity as the target of hate, you don't have the nationality as the target of hate, you have the religion," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "While Jews and Sikhs are covered under the existing law, those of Islamic faith and Christians are not." Mr Blunkett said the answer was to be "robust enough in applying it but sensitive enough not to make a monkey out of it". "The issue of incitement to religious hate is a tiny part of a much broader pattern that we are attempting, collectively, to put together, to create a society where cohesion, tolerance and understanding are natural, where people can settle their differences in ways that don't develop hate and where people feel free to be able to express sensible views and have sensible arguments." The shadow attorney general, Dominic Grieve, said a new offence of religious discrimination would be welcome, but the alternative of incitement to religious hatred was not. "The incitement offence will not provide protection under any circumstances on discrimination grounds but will provide a fetter on people expressing publicly views that are regarded as being hostile or unpleasant to members of particular religious faiths," he told Today. "Now, I can understand why the home secretary is trying to do that, but it does pose some quite difficult issues about freedom of speech because it will cover, for instance, devil worshipers as well as mainstream religious faiths. "And I think we have to be very careful from preventing people from expressing, in ways that are compatible with the ordinary rule of law, a dislike of other religions." And the Labour peer Lord Desai said there were a "lot of difficulties" with Mr Blunkett's plans. "We will get in a real muddle if we take religion as a basis for prosecution rather than race," he told the BBC.He predicted the plans would "have a very, very difficult time" in the Lords. The Islamic Human Rights Commission raised concerns that religious minorities could find themselves the targets of prosecutions under the proposed legislation, rather than enjoying additional protection from it. Those charged under the existing laws against incitement to racial hatred have been disproportionately drawn from black and ethnic minority groups, pointed out chairman Massoud Shadjareh. Mr Shadjareh said: "We are very concerned that this legislation could infringe freedom of speech and will be used against religious minorities, rather than protecting them, just like the only other legislation we have got which is similar to it. However, the Muslim Council of Britain gave the news its immediate backing, saying such a law would "close a long-overdue loophole".Iqbal Sacranie, secretary general of the Muslim Council of Britain, said:" It will hopefully close a loophole in the law that has meant that whereas incitement to racial hatred has been prohibited, incitement to religious hatred has not. This anomaly has not gone unnoticed by Far Right groups in the UK who have been abusing this loophole by publicly adapting their old racist rhetoric of yesteryear into a virulently anti-Muslim invective designed to create divisions in our society."In his speech to a conference organised by the Institute for Public Policy Research, Mr Blunkett said: "It applies equally to far-right evangelical Christians as to extremists in the Islamic faith." Acknowledging that the previous attempts at legislation had faced problems in the House of Lords, Mr Blunkett added: "These are delicate issues."The home secretary said the government will be introducing the new offence "as soon as possible". The government first tried to bring in the offence in 2001 as part of a package of emergency measures in the weeks following the September 11 terrorist attacks, but it was dropped in the face of strong opposition in the House of Lords. This time ministers hope to win parliamentary backing, a Home Office spokeswoman said.  Incitement to racial hatred is already an offence under the Public Order Act 1986, defined as using threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour with intent or likelihood to stir up racial hatred. This existing offence covers inflammatory comments made in public or in the media, as well as the distribution of printed material. The maximum penalty was raised from two to seven years in the Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001. Meanwhile a Home Office minister today withdrew her support for a Muslim women's event because a firebrand cleric is guest of honour. Fiona Mactaggart vowed not to send a personal message to Monday's Hijab Conference in London amid growing anger over the visit of controversial Dr Yusuf al-Qaradawi. Mr Blunkett also announced that he is to set a new standard in English language for people who wish to become British citizens. Everyone taking part in the citizenship ceremonies introduced by Mr Blunkett last year will have to reach level three standard in English as a second language - roughly equivalent to GCSE, a Home Office spokeswomen said. The requirement will come into force in 21 days.