Forensic scientists were last night studying the remains of a third body found in the burnt-out Shropshire mansion of the millionaire businessman Christopher Foster. The remains were discovered across the hall in the main part of Osbaston House from the gutted front room, where teeth and bone fragments of Jill Foster, 49, and an unidentified man were found at the weekend close to a 0.22 rifle.Detectives have upgraded the original arson investigation into a murder inquiry, but are not yet confirming that Christopher Foster, 50, and his 15-year-old daughter, Kirstie, are the two unknown victims at the isolated house near Maesbrook hamlet. A round-the-clock search is continuing.The family was last seen returning to the 15-acre estate after a barbecue at a Shropshire car dealer's home a week last night. Friends of Kirstie, who was due to return to her boarding school at nearby Ellesmere this week, said she had abruptly left an internet chat in the early hours.Foster's oil rig insulation business faced debts of more than £1m. His flamboyant lifestyle, with two Porsches and an Aston Martin in the ruined stableblock, went with business practices which a high court judge described this year as "bereft of the basic instincts of commercial morality".West Mercia police, which has more than 100 officers on the case, said it could not confirm reports that court bailiffs had arrived at the house on Tuesday morning to find it devastated and sealed off. County courts at Oswestry, five miles away, and Birmingham had no comment on the claim.Detective Superintendent Jon Groves said removal of the third set of remains would "take time because of its position". Identification of the man's remains and cause of death is also proceeding slowly."We had the [third set of] remains confirmed as human late last night by a Home Office pathologist and we are hoping to get the body out by the end of Monday, with a postmortem taking place either Monday night or Tuesday," he said. "A forensic archaeologist is due to visit the site to offer specialist advice."Officers are having to work gingerly beneath shored-up walls stripped of plaster by the fire. The site has had to be evacuated several times after further debris fell.Detectives have established that Mrs Foster, whose 4x4 with the number plate JILL40 was also destroyed, was shot through the head. Autopsies have been carried out on the remains of Kirstie's three horses, Scrumpy Jack, Breezy and Bramble, which she described on the internet site Bebo as central to her life. They had been shot, along with the family's four dogs.Friends of the family visited the edge of the garden at Osbaston House yesterday to leave flowers. Fiona Bray, whose daughter Megan clung to her tightly as they passed the police cordon in a single-track lane, said: "We have heard things said about the Fosters that are just not true. We have come to pay our respects because Megan went to school with Kirstie and we were very close to the family. They were a lovely bunch of people." Police are still examining the remains of a CCTV security system found at the house and what is left of two computers. Spent and unspent gun cartridges found in the grounds are also being checked and fingerprint and DNA specialists are working on the family's horsebox, which was left with its tyres punctured in front of the main electronic gates.Kirstie's headmaster, Brendan Wignall, said everyone at her school was "deeply concerned" by the discovery of the third body. He said: "Despite the obvious speculation, I feel that it would be inappropriate to comment further but we are all deeply concerned about this latest development in the ongoing investigation."