Supporters of civil liberties should think twice about lauding plans for police officers to carry body-worn cameras (Not exactly trigger-happy, but police need to work much harder to build trust, 10 January). Even if we accept that footage will be neither lost nor tampered with, we can be far from sure that it will deliver justice. Indeed, rather than supporting justice, the use of filming by UK police forces has led to abuses of power. Increasingly, joint forward intelligence teams are deployed to capture images of legitimate and law-abiding protesters, which are unjustifiably added to databases. It is noticeable, however, that officers tend to be hypersensitive to having their own pictures taken, often spuriously quoting section 23 of the Terrorism Act. It is tempting to suggest that if the Met is in earnest about improving its reputation, it's not cameras that are needed but mirrors.Nigel RaymentLondon• One significant benefit of the police wearing cameras is that finally they can go back to patrolling singly rather than in pairs. The benefits of this are well established: when not distracted by mutual chatting, officers are more observant, less confrontational and more readily engage with the public. Justifiable concerns about how to summon help can be addressed by them wearing a GPS device. If London Transport can know where all its buses are in real time, the Met can do likewise for its foot patrols. I'm sure the Police Federation has a well-rehearsed list of reasons why single patrols are not possible, but the productivity gains are surely too great for vested interests to delay progress. It is a shame that Boris Johnson, having fought so hard for political control of the Met, has not taken the lead in doubling police productivity.Philip CunninghamLondon• Having been calling for police to wear body-worn cameras for years, I naturally welcome the decision for firearms officers to begin trials, in light of the Mark Duggan shooting (Stop and search could be curtailed after Duggan verdict, 10 January). But most of the tension between the police and some communities comes from day-to-day contact such as stop and search. Therefore we should pilot body-worn cameras on all officers in areas of London where confidence in the police is low. The short-term cost will be more than offset by the proven reduction in the cost of complaints and in improved community relations.James CleverlyLondon assembly member (Con)• The professionalism and competence of the Met armed response team in the Duggan case stands in sharp contrast to that of the team that responded to the murder of Lee Rigby. The latter had to respond with no notice to unknown assailants who in the event were armed with gun and machete and who immediately attacked the officers. They disarmed their attackers, avoided making martyrs of them and were able to see them receive justice. The former team failed on all these counts. In a pre-planned operation, they succeeded in shooting dead someone who the jury believed was not armed and turned a criminal into a martyr and set off violent disorder on the streets. John VincentExeter• The mayor of London's plan to buy water cannon for the Metropolitan Police is a worrying move that looks as if it is being rushed through; he is planning on purchasing the water cannon in mid-February. This gives very little chance for Londoners to express their views; such a monumental shift in policing needs a proper public debate. A clear case for water cannon to be used on the streets of London has not been made. They are expensive and no substitute for a properly resourced police service. Since 2010, we've lost 2,900 police officers and 2,370 PCSOs; that's nearly 10% and more than 50% lost respectively.The effectiveness of water cannon in a fast-moving situation is not clear; one of the main issues from the 2011 riots was there weren't enough police officers deployed quickly enough and the police's tactics were inadequate. As the deputy mayor for policing and crime at the time of the riots, Kit Malthouse, told the London assembly police and crime committee in February 2012, "[we] fall slightly into the trap of thinking there is a technological solution to these issues, and the truth is water cannon does not stop a riot."The proposal to purchase water cannons for the Met Police will be discussed at the London assembly police and crime committee on 30 January.Joanne McCartney Chair, London assembly police and crime committee (Lab)• The Met commissioner seems to be repeating a pledge that used prior to the introduction of the Taser when he says any water cannon weapon would be "rarely used and rarely seen". Jake FaggBristol• Boris Johnson is probably right to think that a large and growing proportion of the population are not happy with the austerity that has been imposed on large sections of society, especially the young unemployed and underemployed people, but water cannon will not wash away the problem. Policies that create large-scale unrest need to be changed before demonstrations become necessary.Brian WoodwardKendal• After being vindicated, Andrew Mitchell observed that if police were willing to lie under oath about a member of the cabinet (Police officer faces prison after lying in Plebgate affair, 11 January), they were even more likely to do so about those from marginalised social groups, who would find it far harder than he did to prove their innocence. Mark Duggan, perhaps? Jennifer JenkinsSouthampton