Peter Cosgrove stands waist deep in the waters of the river Tay, a glass-bottomed bucket in hand. Behind him the risen river flows fully and rain pours down. On the shoreline lie hundreds of discarded shells, the illegal debris of pearl fishers hunting their jewels. Set against the dramatic hills the remains of the pearl mussels, Margaritifera margaritifera, cannot help but look insignificant. Their dull grey shells, though perhaps 100 years old, are as unremarkable as any of their saltwater cousins destined for moules et frites. But the pearls that occasionally lie inside are the cause of both their prized status and their downfall. "These little mussels play a very important part in the history of Britain and we now believe they may be one of the most important parts of the ecology of a river," says Dr Cosgrove. "But they have been devastated, in some places by pollution, but in Scotland by pearl fishermen."In 55BC Julius Caesar listed the pearls as one of the reasons behind his invasion of Britain: the Roman emperor had control of the gold and silver trades, but the pearl trade eluded him. Since then, and before, Britain's - and particularly Scotland's - rivers have been plundered by fishermen in search of pearls. With 61 breeding pearl mussel rivers, Scotland is home to more than half of the world's pearl mussels - and their thieves. Since 1970 mussels have been disappearing from Scottish rivers at the rate of two rivers a year. When legislation was passed in the 90s to protect the pearl mussels, making selling on as well as fishing for the pearls illegal, conservationists hoped it would gradually bring the trade in mussel pearls to a close. But a growing number of raids have been reported to wildlife police officers and yesterday, in conjunction with conservation groups, the police launched Operation Necklace to crack down on the pearl fishermen. "It is an ongoing problem and it is probably back to the same level as prior to 1998, when the law was changed," said Alan Stewart, wildlife liaison officer with Tayside police. "Obviously you can't police rivers like you police streets, so there are relatively few convictions. But there is obviously a black-market trade." Pearls from mussels have always been highly prized: they appear in both the Scottish and English crown jewels and individual pearls can be worth thousands of pounds. Not every pearl mussel, though, contains a pearl. No one knows what causes the mussels to produce a pearl, although the most popular theory puts it down to a parasite, and the numbers of pearl mussels which have to be killed varies from river to river. In some rivers every second or third mussel will contain a pearl, in others it is 50 or 60. But as pearl fishermen have plundered the best rivers over the years, those illegally looking for pearls through a glass-bottomed bucket today are having to kill more and more mussels in their search. "Just a couple of weeks ago there was a find of hundreds of discarded mussels on the west coast, so the number of kills is still going on at an alarming rate," said Iain Sime, from Scottish Natural Heritage. "Each mussel can filter up to 50 litres of water a day; they are a keystone species of freshwater rivers." Little is known about the contemporary trade in illegal pearls. Traditionally, pearl fishers have hailed from the travelling communities but police say they now come from a broader base than that. There have been only a handful of prosecutions since pearl fishing was made illegal in 1998, yet police are certain it is a relatively common wildlife crime. When Strathclyde police raided a Glasgow jeweller's last year they found a sizeable stock of freshwater pearls, and two years ago police made similar finds at two Edinburgh jewellers. "The pearls can be valuable and where there is money to be made you'll find people willing to commit a crime," said Mr Stewart. "We find discarded shells by rivers, but I also had a ghillie tell me he saw someone in a wetsuit, just opening the pearl mussels up and throwing them away in the river." As part of their campaign, the organisers of Operation Necklace are distributing a leaflet which highlights recent changes in the law to police forces across Scotland. Pearl mussels are a difficult species to breed. The female shoots out hundreds of tiny clams measuring no more than a tenth of a millimetre which only survive if they can fix themselves onto a passing salmon or trout. But Dr Cosgrove is hoping to launch the world's first reintroduction programme in tributaries to the Spey and Dee. "I think these mussels may turn out to be one of the most important freshwater creatures there is," he said. "Let's just hope we're not finding this out too late." 