The family of a "model prisoner" who was bound and strangled to death in his cell by two fellow inmates have expressed shock and disbelief that he was murdered by two men he thought were his friends.Gary Smith and Lee Newell followed Subhan Anwar into his cell in the high-security prison armed with weapons fashioned out of a pen and a toothbrush before binding his ankles with tape and strangling him with his own tracksuit bottoms.The pair, who were serving life for brutal murders, blamed each other but a jury took less than four hours on Thursday to find both guilty of the fatal attack on Anwar, who was being held in Long Lartin, Worcestershire, for killing his partner's child.Smith and Newell have not said why they killed Anwar, 24, but in his summing up at Warwick crown court, the judge, Mr Justice Baker, pointed out that there was a "moral code" in prison that included targeting those guilty of offences against children. Baker said enforcement of the code included verbal and physical abuse and sometimes death.After the verdict Anwar's family said they would continue to fight to prove he was innocent of the murder of two-year-old Sanam Navsarka, in Huddersfield, West Yorkshire.A family spokesman said Anwar considered Smith and Newell friends but they had acted like "animals". He said: "Subhan had been in Long Lartin prison for four years and he had built up friendships with prisoners and officers. He had proven to be a model prisoner, was a wing representative, helped prisoners to be heard, was well behaved and never caused any trouble. We are shocked and saddened by how Subhan was killed by Smith and Newell."Temporary Detective Chief Inspector Jon Marsden, who led the investigation for West Mercia Police, said it still was not clear what happened in Anwar's cell and accused Smith, 48, and Newell, 44, of being cowards for not explaining their actions.He said: "Our thoughts and sympathies today are with the Anwar family, who have had to suffer a great deal of distress. Whatever Subhan's status as a convicted prisoner, no one deserves to be killed in this way and it has caused his family a great deal of heartache."The Prison Officers' Association says Anwar's murder shows the "immense difficulties and stresses that prison officers endure on a daily basis". The POA is concerned that prison closures, budget cuts and redundancies could lead to more violent incidents within the UK's prisons.Jurors heard that Anwar appeared to be his normal self on the day of the murder, 14 February this year. He had phoned his family and in his role as a wing representative discussed the provision of CDs with another inmate.Just before 6pm he entered his cell closely followed by Smith and Newell. The cell door was shut, locked from the inside and the peep hole blocked.Forty minutes later one of the killers contacted the prison control room using a cell intercom and told an officer: "I have taken the guy in this cell hostage. It's not a joke. I think he's dead." Asked why, he replied: "I'm bored, it was something to do."When prison officers arrived, they spoke to the men inside the cell, which remained locked. The pair appeared calm. Asked by one negotiator what had happened, Newell replied: "I don't know, I wish I knew myself." Asked if Anwar was still alive, Newell replied: "He is with Allah." Smith then said Newell was a "bit shaky" and made him a hot chocolate with icing sugar.The inmates eventually opened the door at about 8.20pm, were handcuffed and taken to the prison's segregation unit.Anwar was found lying on the bed face down. His ankles had been tied together with 2m of tape and he had been strangled with his own tracksuit bottoms. He had a bruise to his forehead that could have been the result of a punch and a bruise to his right shoulder, possibly where he had been struck by "shanks" – makeshift weapons fashioned out of a pen and toothbrush – that were found below the window of Anwar's cell.Later that night another prisoner in the segregation asked Newell what had happened. The prisoner asked: "Did you open his guts?" Newell replied: "No, it was his neck."Both attackers were serving life for murder. Newell has been in prison since the late 1980s after breaking into a neighbour's house in Norfolk and strangling her, before leaving her body in a cupboard. He has been eligible for parole for 10 years but was not considered ready for release.Smith was jailed in 1999 in Leicestershire for killing someone who he believed had "grassed him up" as he planned a robbery. He was due to be considered for release in 2016.Anwar was jailed for life in 2009 for murdering his partner's child. She was found with fractures to all four limbs and died after fatty deposits from her broken thigh bones entered her bloodstream. The sentencing judge told Anwar: "Your cruelty is beyond belief." He had previously been attacked by two prisoners while being held in Doncaster.Members of Anwar's family packed the gallery for the trial of his killers, who will be sentenced next week.