The home secretary, David Blunkett, today unveiled plans to introduce a new offence of corporate manslaughter - six years after Labour first promised it.The proposed legislation would make companies accountable for deaths caused through gross management negligence. Labour backbencher Andrew Dismore had tabled an amendment to the criminal justice bill for debate today designed to bring in an offence of corporate manslaughter. In response, Mr Blunkett said in a statement released at Westminster: "There is great public concern at the criminal law's lack of success in convicting companies of manslaughter where a death has occurred due to gross negligence by the organisation as a whole. "The law needs to be clear and effective in order to secure public confidence and must bite properly on large corporations whose failure to set or maintain standards causes a death. "It is not targeted at conscientious companies that take their health and safety responsibilities seriously." Mr Blunkett said the criminal liability of company directors would not be targeted by the legislation. The Home Office said no new burdens would be placed on firms which already complied with health and safety laws. A spokesman said: "Reforming the laws on corporate manslaughter is part of the government's wider agenda to modernise the criminal justice system - putting victims at the heart, protecting the public and ensuring that justice is done." The government has rejected the option of amending the current legislation in favour of the new draft bill. Tony Lloyd, the Labour MP for Stretford, said that as well as the Southall, Paddington, Hatfield and Potters Bar rail disasters, more than 2,000 workers and members of the public have died in work-related incidents since 1997. During that period only four small firms and two directors have been convicted of the offence of manslaughter. "Last year more than 600 people were killed in Britain as a result of workplace accidents. We know that most of these are down to serious negligence. We have to concentrate the minds of the worst employers that when they kill people they ought to go to prison," said Mr Lloyd. The new offence could mean that a director of a corporation would be guilty of corporate killing if a management failure by the company were identified as one of the causes of death and that failure constituted conduct far below what could reasonably be expected. But Anne Jones, who has campaigned for the change since her son Simon was killed on his first day at work in Shoreham Docks in 1998, was sceptical. "When I hear that the government say they intend to enact the bill they said that five years ago," she told BBC Radio 4's Today programme. "We are tired of hearing, both in face-to-face meetings and in letters from various government departments, various ministers - 'we will enact the law of corporate killing when parliamentary time allows'. "That is the biggest cop-out on earth because parliamentary time never allows it. But they can always find parliamentary time for whatever their pet projects." But Mr Dismore told the programme: "I am confident we are going to see legislation. "It's something I have been campaigning for for a long time as well, ever since I represented as a lawyer victims of the Kings Cross fire. "So I understand those frustrations because far too many people have died unnecessarily." He added: "I am confident the government is now taking major steps forward through publication of the draft bill." Some 249 people died as a result work-related incidents in 2001-2, according to the health and safety executive. It says that the three most common causes of fatal injury in the workplace are falls from a height, being struck by a moving or flying object, and being struck by a moving vehicle. Nina Bawden, 77, whose husband Austen Kark, 75, was killed in the May 2002 Potters Bar rail crash, said today: "This is a step in the right direction." Ms Bawden, an award-winning author who was badly injured at Potters Bar, added: "The present law does not work. Until individual directors are in the line of fire, you are not going to get safety put ahead of profit. "Big companies are not worried by fines but directors might be worried about being sued on an individual basis." The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said: "It took 75 MPs signing an amendment to the criminal justice bill to shame the government into honouring its 1997 manifesto pledge. But better six years late than not at all. "As the law currently stands, the risks taken by grossly negligent companies are absolutely minimal. It is surely the government's duty to send a strong message to companies which endanger lives, that such behaviour will lead to very substantial fines and loss of reputation."Campaigning lawyer Louise Christian, who has represented families bereaved by recent rail crashes, said today: "I fear that all this will not lead to any increase in accountability by companies." She went on: "The government's announcement is very woolly and very weak. In this case, the wheels are not moving very quickly and they don't seem to be going in the right direction. "We are hearing that a timetable for legislation is to be announced in the autumn, Well, the government has had six years to sort something out."