The most far-reaching reforms to the criminal justice system for a generation were outlined by the government yesterday in a long awaited white paper aimed at "rebalancing" the system in favour of victims of crime.Ministers announced a package of proposals for wide-ranging changes to the courts, prosecution and trial processes, and the sentencing system, designed to ensure that more of those who commit crimes are convicted. The white paper, Justice for All, aims to plug the "justice gap" between the number of crimes reported to police and the number of offenders brought to justice. Only one in 13 rapes reported to police, for example, ends in a conviction. Ministers hope they will restore public confidence in the criminal justice system (CJS) and bring the disparate parts of the system - police, prosecution, courts, prison and probation service - together to work as a coherent, more effective whole.  The courts   Victims and witnesses Nearly 40% of witnesses surveyed said they would not give evidence again because of intimidation or the experience of cross-examination. More than 30,000 cases were abandoned in 2001 because victims and witnesses failed to give evidence in court. An independent commissioner will be appointed to champion the interests of victims and witnesses, and a national strategy for victims and witnesses will be drawn up. Victims of domestic violence may be given the same anonymity as rape victims, and victims of mentally disordered offenders will have the same rights as victims of other offenders to know when they will be released and how they will be managed post-release.   Engaging the public Fewer than half those called for jury service actually serve. Jury eligibility will be widened to take in anyone between 18 and 70 resident in the UK for five years, so people who currently escape jury service, such as judges, lawyers and doctors would be included. A new central jury summoning bureau will decide whether someone who worked in the criminal justice system should sit as a juror on a particular case. Catchment areas for jury service will be reviewed to make juries more representative. There will be a single national non-emergency number for the police.   Improving the criminal justice process Police and the crown prosecution service will work more closely together to ensure better investigation and preparation of cases. Crown prosecutors will take over the right from police to charge defendants, to ensure correct charges are laid at the start. Prosecutors and police will work in joint criminal justice units, with prosecutors giving advice to help focus police investigations and make sure the best evidence is available. Police will be able to impose conditions on bail before charge, such as staying away from particular premises. In high crime areas a scheme will be piloted under which suspects are remanded in custody if they test positive for class A drugs and refuse treatment. Both prosecution and defence will have to disclose all material necessary to ensure the trial focuses on the real issues.   Fairer, more effective trials  Retrospective changes to the double jeopardy rule will allow those acquitted of a serious offence, including murder, manslaughter, rape and armed robbery, to be tried again if new evidence of alleged guilt emerges. Sentencing powers of magistrates will be increased from six to 12 months to encourage them to send fewer cases to the crown court for jury trial. But defendants in middle-ranking "either-way" cases will keep the right to elect jury trial. Judges will be able to hear complex fraud cases estimated at no more than 20 a year - without a jury, and possibly other complex cases such as organised crime. If there was strong evidence of jury intimidation, a judge would be able to hear the case without a jury. Youngsters under 16 charged with serious crimes, including murder, will be tried in the youth court by a high court judge and magistrates. The trial will be in private unless the judge orders it in open court. Magistrates courts and crown courts will be combined. There will be incentives and penalties for lawyers to process their cases speedily. The highly technical rules of evidence will be overhauled to ensure everything relevant is put before the jury. The trial judge will have discretion to allow defendants' previous convictions and acquittals to be put before a jury, in wider circumstances than currently happens. A US style system of plea bargaining to encourage early guilty pleas will allow a defendant to ask the judge what the sentence would be if he pleaded guilty.  Sentencing  The white paper says that prison must be reserved for serious, dangerous and seriously persistent offenders. Tough community sentences are needed as a credible alternative. There is to be an independent review of the cost effectiveness of the probation and prison services.   Fines Prompt payers will get a discount but fines will increase for late payers; new fine officers will have powers to clamp cars which could be sold to pay debts.   Customised community sentence This will bring together all existing community sentences allowing courts to choose between the options for individual offenders. Provisions will include unpaid work, offending behaviour programmes, curfews, drug testing and abstinence rules. Those who fail to comply after one warning will face breach action, including the possibility of prison.   Custody plus Up to 12 months with maximum of three months in prison plus compulsory period of supervision in the community. Failure to comply will mean return to jail.   Consecutive custody plus  Sentences will be maximum of six months within overall 15 month period. Custody plus would be piloted in current parliament before decision on national implementation after next general election.   Custody minus Similar to above but a suspended sentence which will be used for a range of offenders as a last chance before prison. The options will be the same as the customised community sentence.   Intermittent custody Part-time prison including weekend jail. To be served in existing open prisons by those receiving short sentences who are not a danger. Could be especially effective in cutting the number of women in prison. Will be piloted as soon as legislation allows. Community custody centres are to be developed within existing prisons so that those on intermittent custody could be given reading and writing classes and drug and alcohol treatment while denied liberty.   Sentences over 12 months For non-dangerous offenders release will be automatic at halfway point with rest of sentence served under supervision in community.   Violent and sexual 0ffenders New legislation will be published in the autumn overhaul of the Victorian laws on sex crimes. The criminal justice bill will include a new indeterminate sentence for those considered dangerous. They will serve a minimum term and then remain in prison until the Parole Board decides they are safe to release. Could remain on licence for rest of their lives. A new order is also to be introduced similar to the existing sex offender order to ensure police and probation have the tools to manage them in the community.   Sentencing Guidelines Council Chaired by the Lord Chief Justice this will issue guidelines for all courts for the full range of criminal offences in consultation with parliament.   Parole Board Discretionary release will only apply to violent and sex offenders.   Young offenders Extended version of intensive supervision and surveillance programme will be used as alternative to prison. Intensive fostering schemes introduced, and current "action plan" orders extended from three to 12 months. The courts are to be given the power to demand drug testing and treatment for teenagers with parental consent.  Punishment and rehabilitation   Going straight contract for 18-20 year olds, including reparations to victims deducted from prison pay. Probation officers to have powers to drug test inmates on release. Other release procedures will be reviewed to ensure they have somewhere to go and a job or benefits. A competitive element will be introduced to the management of new prisons; existing prisons to be modernised and some outdated prisons will be closed. The prisons ombudsman will get power to investigate custody deaths.  Joining up the justice system  £600m to be spent over the next three years on information technology so there is secure email by next year and victims can track their case online by 2005.