A police officer in the Damilola Taylor murder trial today denied buying gifts for the prosecution's 13-year-old key witness to induce her to give evidence.Sergeant Carolyn Crooks admitted buying the girl, now 14, clothes and giving her two mobile phones. But she denied this was because the girl, who the prosecution say was the only witness to the killing, had twice changed her mind about going to court. Defence barrister Baroness Mallalieu said to Sgt Crooks: "Your job was to keep the wheels on the wagon until this trial - to keep the show on the road." Sgt Crooks told the Old Bailey: "I don't think anything done for her was unreasonable, nothing I wouldn't do for anyone else." The officer said the girl was a crucial witness and she made sure her welfare and safety was looked after. She had been forced to move home several times and items of clothing had been lost. The mobile phones were essential to ensure she could contact police if she was in danger, Sgt Crooks said. Sgt Crooks then agreed she had taken up complaints about things not working in the various places they stayed because the police were paying the bills. She had also stepped in because the girl's mother was very ill at the time and under considerable strain. Sgt Crooks denied a suggestion that she used the promise of a £50,000 reward as a carrot. She said: "I think you and I both know I didn't dangle any reward in front of her." Giving evidence for a second day, the officer confirmed she had been a family liaison officer dealing with Mr and Mrs Taylor. Lady Mallalieu asked if she had, as others had, been impressed with the "dignity and courage" of the Taylors. Sgt Crooks replied she had also been impressed by the courage of the girl. Damilola, 10, was killed after being stabbed with a broken bottle in the thigh on November 27 2000, on the North Peckham estate in south London where he lived. Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old youth deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob.The trial continues.