The convictions of Steve Wright and Mark Dixie this week prompted fresh calls for a nationwide register to hold DNA profiles of every citizen in the country.Both men were convicted after DNA found on their victims was linked with samples they had supplied to the police national DNA database. In Wright's case, his DNA was logged in 2003, after being caught stealing. Dixie's DNA was added following a brawl in 2006, a year after he murdered the 18-year-old model Sally Anne Bowman. In both cases, DNA played a crucial role in their convictions.Britain already has, per capita, the largest forensic DNA database in the world. Approximately 4m samples, or 6% of the population are registered on it. They are all people who have either been convicted of crimes, or arrested and subsequently found not guilty. The database has undoubtedly become a formidable tool for fighting crime: in 2005, it was used in court evidence in 422 murders and manslaughters trials, 645 rapes and 9,000 domestic burglaries. To add a person to the database, scientists record a sequence of genetic markers, which are stored as a series of 20 two-digit numbers. The probability of a chance match of all 20 numbers is about one in a million.An all-encompassing DNA database has powerful support from the scientific community. Sir Alec Jeffreys, the Leicester University scientist who invented DNA fingerprinting has called for a register that holds DNA profiles of everyone from birth. It would, he says, put everyone on a level playing field. Today, at least 37% of samples on the UK's police DNA database, for example, are from black males. Critics, among them civil rights groups, fear the existing DNA database already has serious flaws. Liberty claims that storing DNA of people who are innocent is an infringement of civil rights, and favours a system that holds only the DNA of those convicted of sexual and violent crimes. Their position was bolstered last year by the influential Nuffield Council on Bioethics, which urged the government to prevent the police storing DNA profiles of acquitted suspects, and to drop plans to collect DNA from those suspected of minor crimes. The council was more damning of a population-wide DNA register, claiming it was impractical and an intrusion of privacy that would be compensated for by "only a negligible increase in public safety".Professor Allan Jamieson, director of the Forensic Institute in Glasgow and an expert witness in the Omagh bombing trial, said a national DNA register might quickly give police an overwhelming number of suspects to investigate, and would almost inevitably lead to more miscarriages of justice."We already know your DNA can turn up in places you haven't been, but we're now increasingly working with lower and lower amounts of DNA and many of these are mixtures from different people, and that brings new problems," he said. The difficulty is that while a sample collected from a crime scene might contain DNA from three different people, it is jumbled up, and sorting it out can give investigators four, five or more possible DNA profiles to look into."You're then in the situation where you've generated extra DNA profiles, and if you have more people on a database, it is more likely that one day they will match someone," Jamieson said.Richard Spring, Tory MP for West Suffolk, said he was against putting more people on the DNA database, because the information might not be secure.