A judge yesterday ordered the home secretary, David Blunkett, to hold a public inquiry into the "systemic failures" which led to the death of an Asian teenager placed in a cell with a known violent racist skinhead. Mr Justice Hooper said it was "difficult to imagine a more shocking death in prison than that of Zahid Mubarek", who was bludgeoned to death with a table leg by his psychopathic cellmate, Robert Stewart, on the day he was due to be released. Last month the judge ruled that the right to life guaranteed by the European convention on human rights required the Home Office to carry out an independent investigation into the death of the 19-year-old first offender, who was serving three months for a petty theft. Yesterday he gave his reasons, and laid down that the inquiry must be conducted in public, with legal representation for the teenager's family, disclosure to them of relevant documents, and the right to cross examine witnesses. The Home Office said that Mr Blunkett, who was given leave to appeal as a matter of urgency, would be appealing against the decision. Stewart, also 19, who the judge said had "an alarming and violent criminal record, both in and out of custody", killed the teenager in their joint cell at Feltham young offender institution, west London, in March 2000. Feltham has been damned in reports from the chief inspector of prisons, one of which described it as "rotten to the core". The judge said: "It is accepted that Zahid Mubarek was put in the same cell as his killer because of systemic failures. Established procedures were not followed and there is an appalling history at Feltham of failure to comply with earlier recommendations. "It seems likely - and it is certainly arguable - that there were serious human failings at the wing level and at higher levels which have not been publicly identified. "On the facts of this case the obligation to hold an effective and thorough investigation can, in my judgment, only be met by holding a public and independent investigation with the family legally represented, provided with the relevant material and able to cross examine the principal witnesses." Lawyers for the dead youth's uncle, Imtiaz Amin, from Walthamstow, east London, argued that Mr Blunkett had breached his obligations under article 2 of the European convention - the right to life - to arrange an effective inquiry. Home Office lawyers had argued that there were sufficient investigations into the case at Stewart's subsequent trial, and particularly through the internal prison service inquiry. The family's solicitor, Imran Khan, said they were "very disappointed" that the home secretary had decided to "add insult to injury" by deciding to appeal. "We hoped that he would have taken a leaf out of the book of Martin Narey, director general of the prison service, who wrote to the family and acknowledged there was a problem," said Mr Khan. "There is still a problem at Feltham - there was a suicide a week ago - and the sooner there is a public inquiry the better. The home secretary cannot put his head in the sand, pretending there is no problem and hoping it will go away."