David Blunkett, the home secretary, suffered a fresh defeat in the court of appeal yesterday when it ruled that he must keep under periodic review the minimum terms in custody set by the lord chief justice for under-18s convicted of murder.Mr Blunkett had argued that once the tariff for young murderers, detained "during her majesty's pleasure", had been fixed by a judge, he was not obliged to review it periodically to take account of their progress in custody. The judgment, which affects 250 prisoners detained during her majesty's pleasure - the equivalent of a life sentence for murder - is the third defeat in court for the home secretary in two weeks in cases involving prisoners' rights. The ruling is a victory for Maria Smith, who was 17 in 1992 when she and her friend Marie Malloy, under the influence of drink and drugs, stabbed to death Edna Philpott, 70, and also for Anthony Dudson, who in 1993, when he was 16, was part of a group who imprisoned and set fire to Suzanne Capra, 16. Smith will be entitled to have her 13-year tariff, and Dudson his 16-year minimum term reviewed from time to time to take account of their rehabilitation, and may be released earlier if their progress is good. Lord Phillips, master of the rolls, said the position of children convicted of murder was "one of the most confused areas of our criminal process". Since 1908, they had been sentenced to be "detained during his/her majesty's pleasure". He said: "The nature and effect of that sentence may have been clear in 1908, but it has ceased to be so." Changes in policy, statutory reforms and the European convention on human rights had produced "a state of uncertainty as to the law". In 1997 the House of Lords ruled that Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, the killers of James Bulger, had the right to have their tariffs, then set by the home secretary, periodically reviewed. In 2000, the European court of human rights ruled that tariffs must be fixed by a judge, not a politician. Following that ruling, it was agreed that the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, would set new tariffs for all the prisoners detained during her majesty's pleasure. Mr Blunkett argued that the law lords' ruling that tariffs must be reviewed applied only where the tariff had been fixed by the home secretary and not where it had been set by a judge.