For the would-be model it seemed like a distant dream was coming true. Bedecked in gold and deep red garments she thought she was on a modelling assignment in India for a wedding catalogue. The groom may not have been as good-looking as she had expected, but she thought her friend, Jaswinder, had delivered on her promise to help her get started as a model.The only problem was that Jaswinder was a con artist who tricked British Asian women into getting married to Indian men who wanted to come to the UK. The unwitting victim had thought this was the first step on a path that could lead to posing for Cosmopolitan and treading Parisian catwalks. Instead, it was part of a scam to line the pockets of a woman from Hayes, west London - and the victim had been fooled into marrying a stranger. Yesterday Jaswinder Gill was sentenced to 10 years for the scam which may have earned her up to £1m after a trial that saw her branded as "greedy, manipulative and a total alien to the truth". Gill, 42, went to extraordinary lengths to pull off a series of cons. She would organise elaborate Indian wedding sets to fool the British Asian women. She handed out cards in supermarkets and nightclubs in the hunt for recruits, promising help in starting a modelling career. At least 15 women were involved - all described by police as "vulnerable", with drug or money problems. Some knew exactly the scam Gill was perpetrating and were paid £1,000 for going through the sham marriage, while Gill collected between £11,000 to £14,000 from the men who wanted to get to Britain. Others were tricked and one woman who tried to back out had two men sent to her room and was threatened with rape if she did not comply. The women were mostly in their 20s and from the London area. Two were abandoned after the weddings and had to be rescued by their British relatives. Gill was convicted last month of two counts of conspiring to assist unlawful entry, one of actually doing so, and also plotting to pervert the course of justice. Sentencing her at Isleworth crown court, the judge, Sam Kathkuda, said: "You influenced and persuaded each of them in one way or another to take part in fake marriages ... Your methods of persuasion varied from being personable ... to vile, with your behaviour towards one of them most despicable." The judge told Gill it was clear that she was the instigator of the four-and-a-half year scam. Police found £250,000 in one of Gill's bank accounts and still are not sure how much she made. But it was enough to finance a plush lifestyle, with luxury cars, including a Lexus and Mercedes. Not only was Gill criminally imaginative, she was also ruthless. After her arrest she tried to bribe witnesses and the case led to 13 women being convicted of perjury. The judge said: "Not only that, but having been arrested, you set out to try, with financial rewards, to induce witnesses to withdraw their statements. When you failed, you resorted to false accusations and when that failed, you organised several witnesses to come to court and tell blatant lies from the witness box." Her husband, Darshan, was told by the judge that he was "subordinate to [his] wife's will", but was nevertheless a "valuable lieutenant". He was jailed for six years after admitting the two unlawful entry conspiracy charges. Two other men, Fasil Rashid, 31, of Acton, west London, and Ahmed Zubair, 20, of Hayes, west London, were jailed for four years and 12 months respectively. Gill's scam ran from 2000 to 2004 and police do not know how many fake marriages she may have orchestrated, nor where the men are. When police raided her home they found false documentation designed to help facilitate the sham marriages. Outside court, Detective Sergeant Gerri Mannion, of Scotland Yard's Operation Maxim, which counters people smuggling, said: "Jaswinder Gill ruthlessly manipulated vulnerable young women into taking part in sham marriages motivated by pure greed and financial personal gain. "She was picking up particularly vulnerable young girls who she knew were motivated by money. "She knew they had personal problems, were estranged from their families and had no money. "She was originally nice to them, took them into her home, gave them money and telephone cards. But then she turned nasty when they did not want to go through with sham marriages." "We could not get to everybody. We just had to go with those we could find." She appealed to other "brides" to contact police. Gill cried while being sentenced but Ms Mannion said: "I don't believe she has shown any remorse. As the judge pointed out, she lied continually throughout the trial and any remorse she showed today was because she had actually been convicted." Police will apply for an order to confiscate the money Gill made.