As the judges left courtroom 8 for lunch yesterday, Stephen Clark managed to catch his wife's eye and raised his fists in a gesture of victory. The appeal court judges had made it clear that they planned to overturn the solicitor's conviction for the murder of her two baby sons.But Sally Clark, looking gaunt and dazed, simply shook her head at him. Five years, one trial and two appeals after she was first arrested, she refused to let herself believe that she might be going home to her remaining child. Two hours later, she finally allowed herself to smile back at her husband before mouthing the words "Thank you" at the three judges who had just quashed her convictions. The case of Sally Clark has polarised opinion since she was arrested. She had been reviled as a "baby-killer" after being found guilty of smothering Christopher, aged 11 weeks, and a year later shaking eight-week-old Harry to death at their home in Wilmslow, Cheshire. The prosecution at her trial at Chester crown court had portrayed her as a "lonely drunk" who resented her children for holding her career back and who found it difficult to settle into her new home, missing her friends and family in the south. They suggested she had found it difficult to adjust to motherhood. But her family and friends were convinced she was innocent and mounted a huge campaign for her release. They insisted that the solicitor's drinking had escalated in the aftermath of her sons' deaths and described her as a doting mother, incapable of violence, and brimming with pride in her children. She had just ordered the cake for Christopher's christening when tragedy struck for the first time, dashing her hopes of a peaceful family life with Stephen, also a solicitor. The couple met in 1988, marrying shortly afterwards and moving to the north-west a few years later so that they could buy a house large enough to start a family. Hope Cottage became that family home when Mrs Clark gave birth to Christopher on September 22 1996.  Struggle  He seemed to be a healthy, happy baby, despite a brief incident in early December when he suddenly developed a nosebleed and began to struggle to breathe while in Mr Clark's care. He soon recovered and a GP told the couple it was nothing to worry about. But on December 13, while Mr Clark was at a Christmas party, Mrs Clark checked on Christopher as he lay in his Moses basket and discovered he had turned grey. She called an ambulance, but it was too late to save him; the doctors ascribed his mysterious death to cot death syndrome. The Clarks decided that another child might help them overcome their grief and Harry was born on November 29 1997. A health visitor noted that Mrs Clark seemed "happy and delighted with the baby" in the weeks after the birth. But on the evening of January 26, Mr Clark heard his wife scream from upstairs. Harry appeared to have collapsed in his bouncy chair and had turned blue. His father and ambulance staff were unable to resuscitate him. The Clarks were distraught at this second tragedy and urged the hospital to find a specialist paediatric pathologist to carry out the postmortem examination this time. Instead, it was - like that on Christopher - carried out by Dr Williams, the general pathologist at Macclesfield Hospital. He found brain, spinal and eye injuries and concluded that Harry had been "shaken on several occasions over several days". Although experts later suggested that the injuries could have been caused by attempts to resuscitate him, the findings sparked a police inquiry which led to a reassessment of Christopher's death and Mrs Clark's conviction for murdering both of her babies. However hard the couple have struggled, their contacts, education and articulacy have given them a fighting chance in their battle, as Mr Clark acknowledged. "If all this can happen to a responsible and reputable couple like us, people who are reasonably intelligent, who have a bit of money and supportive contacts, what on earth would it be like for those people who haven't got those advantages?" Mrs Clark's father, Frank Lockyer, is a retired divisional commander of South Wiltshire police who has been closely in volved in the campaign for his daughter's release. Solicitor friends of the couple also helped their investigations. In May 2001, the solicitors' disciplinary tribunal took the unusual step of suspending Mrs Clark from the solicitors' roll instead of striking her off despite her conviction; it was, Mrs Clark said yesterday, her "first glimmer of hope". Even in prison, she received "compassion and understanding" from the governor, staff and inmates, she said, as well as letters from hundreds of well-wishers and the "unwavering and unconditional support" of friends. But above all, she has counted on her husband, the "rock" who never wavered in his insistence that she was innocent and who found the crucial medical evidence that led to the quashing of her convictions. "I wouldn't be human if the thought had never crossed my mind that Sally might have killed our babies, but I dismissed it immediately," he said recently. "She is the kindest, sweetest, most caring person I have ever known." Yesterday Mrs Clark stressed that her husband had stood by her "not through blind love or unthinking loyalty, but because he knows me better than anyone else and knows how much I loved our babies". "Being separated from him for so long has been a living hell," she said. "Being deprived of more than three years of being a mum to our little boy has been even worse. And yet somehow, despite our separation and against all the odds, we have managed to remain a family and stay close. "My little boy knows that he has a mummy and daddy who love him very much and love each other very much and that's what counts." Her four-year-old son has until now been brought up by Mr Clark, seeing his mother once a week and referring to her prison as "Mummy's home". But Mrs Clark, who feared she had lost her third chance at motherhood, is determined to try to reconstruct a normal life with him. Now, she said, it was time to "rebuild our lives, move forward and learn to be a proper family again". Long path to liberty September 22 1996 Christopher was born. He was found dead in his Moses basket aged 11 weeks  November 29 1997 Harry was born. He died in his bouncy chair on the evening of January 26 1998, aged eight weeks  February 23 1998 Sally and Steve Clark were arrested on suspicion of murder  July 2 1998  Sally Clark was charged with the murders of both children. The crown prosecution service decided not to proceed against Steve Clark  November 29 1998  While the case against her was in preparation, Sally Clark gave birth to a third son  October 11 1999 Trial began at Chester crown court  November 9 1999  Clark found guilty by majority verdicts of killing both children. She was given two life sentences  July 17 2000 The case was considered by the court of appeal  October 2 2000  The appeal judges accepted that statistics used in the trial - suggesting that the chances of a double cot death might be 73 million to one - were flawed. But they were convinced there remained "overwhelming" evidence of her guilt  July 2 2002 The criminal cases review commission confirmed that it had been made aware of fresh evidence and was sending the case back to the court of appeal for a second time