 10.30pm BST As mountain rescue teams and police continue the search overnight for April, we are wrapping up the blog for now but will be back in the morning.Of course, our site will still report on any major breaking developments tonight. Police have meanwhile said that their next press conference will be held not before 7.30am.  10.15pm BST Jon Clements, ITV's crime correspondent, has tweeted:Jon Clements (@JonClementsITV)Police are searching houses where suspect named locally as Mark Bridger has lived in the past few yearsOctober 2, 2012Updated at 10.17pm BST 10.12pm BST Superintendent Ian John, who took part in tonight's police press conference, has said that he and colleagues remain positive.Speaking after the conference, he told Sky News that the main focus of the search continues to be on the Machynlleth area.Asked if he remained positive, he replied: "Yes of course we are positive. We are committed to finding April and bringing her home to her family." 10.08pm BST Steve Morris of the Guardian relays some other lines from the police press conference this evening: The police confirmed that they are examining a left-hand driver mid-nineties Land Rover Discovery.At their first press conference this morning officers said the girl had got into the driver's side or the passenger side of a left-hand drive van-like vehicle.Officers tonight repeated that their priority was to find April. They are continuing to interview the 46-year-old man they arrested.Updated at 10.31pm BST 9.55pm BST Here is the full statement from the family of April Jones this evening: Last night our lives were shattered when our beautiful little girl April who was playing with friends was taken from us.We are devastated and our lives have stopped. Please, please, if you have our little girl let her come home to us.This is such a small close-knit community and we plead with anyone who has information, no matter how small they may think it is, to contact the police immediately. Please help us bring home our beautiful girl.Updated at 10.32pm BST 9.52pm BST The man who was arrested was described by police at the press conference as a "significant individual".In answer to questions from reporters, they said that they were not aware of any recent abduction attempts."What we routinely have are reports of suspicious vehicles in the vicinity of young children," added an officer."But at this stage we have nothing to suggest that April's disappearance is connected to anything else." 9.49pm BST Specialist police and mountain rescue teams will continue to search throughout the night, the press conference was told.The two senior officers hosting it thanked the public for their help in the search operation but asked people to now take a break and return in the morning.Updated at 9.53pm BST 9.45pm BST A statement was read out from April's family, who said: "We are devastated and our lives have stopped."They appealed for anyone with information that could help bring April home to come forward."Please, please if you have our little girl, let her come home to us," the statement added.Updated at 9.53pm BST 9.39pm BST The latest police press conference in Aberystwyth is beginning now. They have started by recapping on the day's developments. 8.45pm BST   Key places in events surrounding April Jones's disappearance Photograph: Guardian Graphics 7.59pm BST The man arrested as part of the police investigation into April's abduction was known to her family, according to the Press Association.The 46-year-old man has not been named by the police but the Guardian and other news organisation understand that he is Mark Bridger, who is from the Machynlleth area.He was picked up by police while he was on foot but his empty car was quickly recovered.Another police news conference is due to be held at 9.30. We'll bring you the latest from that when it happens. Detectives are meanwhile also examining whether April's abduction was linked to another attempted abduction in the Aberystwyth area around one week ago - as well as looking closely at the movements of registered sex offenders living in the area. 7.34pm BST Mark Bridger, a local man named by Sky News as the one being questioned by police, has two young children of his own, according to the broadcaster.It says that one of them was said to have been playing with April yesterday.Sky News reports that it is basing the information on conversations it has been having with locals on the estate where April lived. No name has been released by police. 7.23pm BST The police are saying they are scaling down the public side of the search, says the Guardian's Steve Morris, who is in Machynlleth.The force's own search teams will continued to look for April overnight and are using heat-seeking equipment to try to find her. Police are also continuing to scour the River Dyfi, which runs through the town. 7.21pm BST An RAF search and rescue helicopter was used to air-lift a specialist search team to an area near the River Dyfi where much of the search has been concentrated.The Minister of Defence press office said that local police had requested the helicopter in order to move the team to that area as fast as possible.Updated at 7.23pm BST 7.02pm BST The is Ben Quinn taking over the blog from Peter Walker. Sandra Laville, the Guardian's Crime Correspondent has filed a piece on how the abduction of April has triggered the first nationwide child rescue alert ever used in the UK.She reports: A tactic long used in America, the child rescue alert has never been used across the country like this before, partly because suspected stranger abductions are rare.Charlie Hedges, manager of the missing, abducted and kidnapped childrens' unit within Ceop said the decision to launch the alert was made in the knowledge that to do so could swamp the investigating team.Hedges said such alerts are usually only triggered if the police have detailed descriptions of suspects or vehicles to release to the public.But in the case of April Jones the great difficulty for the police is that the description of the vehicle she got into is extremely vague – a light grey coloured van, or Land Rover which may be a left hand drive."We discussed it long into the night," said Hedges. "Normally you would issue fairly precise information and we didn't have that. It was a really difficult call but we decided the risk to April was such that we needed to launch the alert."Updated at 7.04pm BST 6.58pm BST Sky News have named the arrested man as 46-year-old Mark Bridger, who the channel says is from the Machynlleth area.They channel is attributing that to police sources. 6.13pm BST More on the arrested manHelen Carter has this upodate: A man arrested in connection with the abduction of April Jones was known to the five-year-old's family, it emerged on Tuesday night. The 46-year-old man from the Machynlleth area was on foot but his empty car was quickly recovered, police said. Forensic officers were already examining the vehicle tonight and described it as "a vehicle he had use of which is of interest to the inquiry." Police are also looking at whether April's abduction is connected to another attempted abduction in the Aberystwyth area around a week ago. It comes as police confirmed that they were also looking closely at the movements of known registered sex offenders living in the area. And it is also understood that the man being questioned is known to April's family but is not a relative. That would explain why the five-year-old apparently got into a car with the person who abducted her of her own free will. Officers said the man was arrested by a police patrol to the north of the market town at around 3.30pm. 5.58pm BST River reportedly being searchedBBC News reports its correspondent on the scene saying that police have called in the coastguard to help search the River Dyfi, adjoining their search area by the A487, just outside Machynlleth.Updated at 6.01pm BST 5.35pm BST Road closure locationwe now have a map of the area of the road closure, by the A487. Sky News reports a very intensive search taking place there. 5.30pm BST More on the road closureSky News has a helicopter near the road closure. It reports that the A487 is sealed off in both directions a few miles outside Machynlleth and that the area, which includes a section of river, is the apparent focus for an intense search, including a police helicopter. 5.18pm BST Road closure in North WalesMy colleague Helen Carter has more information about the closure of the A487 road (see 16.45 updates):  The road closure in North Wales is part of the investigation, a spokesman for Dyfed-Powys police said. The road closure is in place in the hamlet of Cross Foxes, according to North Wales police. It is in relation to the investigation into the disappearance of April Jones. 5.14pm BST More information this eveningThe BBC is reporting that police believe they may have another update this evening. There's no indication what this might be. 5.12pm BST More from policeDS Bevan has been speaking to the BBC News channel. Information from the public, he said, had "focused our activities" in arresting the man now being questioned. Asked if anyone else was being sought in connection with April's disappearance, he said: We will not focus all our efforts on this one individual. He's significant, clearly, that's why we've arrested him, but we will continue other lines of inquiry. 5.07pm BST Man known to policeMy colleague Sandra Laville was also listening to DS Bevan speak to Sky News, and brings more details: Detective superintendent Reg Bevan said they had been searching for the man since last night and knew that his vehicle matched the description of the one April was said to get into.He said: "The man has come into the inquiry as a result of initial actions last night. He was on foot he was walking on the side of the road he was detained by our officers...we have recovered his vehicle."Bevan indicated on Sky News the man was known to police, and suspicions had been raised very early on about his involvement. He said the 46 year old was a local man but would not be drawn on whether he was a known sex offender.Bevan said his vehicle was being examined. A major part of the police inquiry has been identifying known sex offenders in the area and the 46 year old man was known to the police. 5.04pm BST More on arrested manMy colleague Steven Morris has sent this tweet:steven morris(@stevenmorris20)April Jones - source close to investigation says man arrested not family member. May be known to family.October 2, 2012 5.00pm BST Police press conference quoteHere's a fuller quote from DS Bevan at the press conference: We are continuing our investigation to find April. However, within the last hour we have arrested a 46-year-old male from the Machynlleth area who is being detained at Aberystwyth police station.We made the arrest just outside Machynlleth and we are hopeful that this individual will assist us in locating April, who is still missing.We are still pursuing all lines of inquiry with a view that April is still alive and we will continue to do so until we find her.Updated at 5.02pm BST 4.55pm BST More police newsDS Bevan has been speaking to Sky News. He said the arrested man is local and was one of a series of inquiry lines, in part because he had a similar vehicle to the one described. Police were "actively looking for him". The man was arrested while walking on the side of the road just north of Machynlleth. Police have now recovered his vehicle. Bevan said: We are still searching for April. We are pursuing this as if she is still alive. 4.48pm BST Press conference overThat was it for the press conference: Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan of Dyfed Powys Police said a 46-year-old man was arrested in the Machynlleth area within the last hour and is being questioned at Aberystwyth police station. They hope he will help police locate her, but can give no more details. Police then helped everyone helping with the search, but took no questionsUpdated at 4.49pm BST 4.45pm BST Man arrestedA 46-year-old man has been arrested, police say. They are "hopeful" of locating April but have no more details 4.45pm BST Reports of road closedThe scheduled press conference appears to be delayed. In the interim, the BBC News channel has reported that North Wales police have closed off a large section of the A487 road, and is referring questions to this to Dyfed and Powys police. There is no immediate indication as to how significant this might be.  People searching in Machynlleth for April Jones, five, who was abducted while out playing near her home. Photograph: Rui Vieira/PAUpdated at 5.15pm BST 4.19pm BST Words from search volunteersMy colleague Steven Morris has been speaking to people offering to help with the search: Still more and more people turning up in Machynlleth to help search for April. Retired electrical engineer Brian Clayton travelled from Bristol to join the hunt. He was kitting himself out with waterproof trousers from a pile of donated outdoor clothing before taking to the hills.“We come here for our holidays every year. It's a lovely place, the sort of place you come to to recharge your batteries. I came to see if there was anything I could do to help.”Roma Morgan, a lecturer from Aberystwyth, was on a day off so decided to join the search. She joined a team going door-to-door in Machynlleth, asking to look in sheds, bins, gardens, even attics. “People were fine – they were happy to let us into their houses.”The press pack has moved 20 miles away to government offices in Aberystwyth for a press conference. Members of April's family are expected to make an appeal. 4.10pm BST New press conferenceWarning: there is a scheduled press conference at 4.30pm involving police and a member or members of April's family. It's happening in Aberystwyth.Updated at 4.51pm BST 4.02pm BST Godmother speaksLondon's Evening Standard newspaper has quotes from April's godmother, Mair Raftree, about the impact on the family: I was the first person Coral called. She was absolutely devastated. She was in shock. She was upset, saying ‘April’s gone. She was put in a van. She was taken away’.I told her to call the police immediately and she said she was about to. She called me first because she was in a state of shock. She had just been told by April’s little friend that she was snatched. I was just gobsmacked. It didn’t register until I’d put the phone down. 3.48pm BST MP describes local communityGlyn Davies, the local MP, has been telling Sky News about the local area. He said: It's a small town in a rural community. Everybody knows each other... This just doesn't happen. It's incredible for us.Davies said lots of locals were eager to help with the search, and were not frustrated at being obliged to wait to do so as they realised any search had to be organised.  Glyn Davies MP told Sky lots of local people were keen to help with the search for April Jones. Photograph: David Jones/PAUpdated at 4.53pm BST 3.17pm BST Neighbours shockedThis is Peter Walker taking over from Lizzy.A reporter from the Press Association has been talking to neighbours on the Bryn-y-Gog estate. They write: Parents Coral, 40, and Paul, 43, were described as "stunned and devastated" by neighbours struggling with the same emotions."The general feeling is one of disbelief, nobody can take it on board," said Mathew Harris, 22, who lives on the estate.Surrounded on three sides by tree-covered hills at the centre of the small estate is a series of open greens used by local children.As on most days unattended bicycles and balls litter the large grass areas safe from thieves on the close-knit estate."I was born and grew up on this estate and remember what it was like as a kid. Everyone played with everyone else," he said."It's the same today. Kids play out together and everyone looks after everyone else. Somebody said that this estate once won an award as the safest in Powys."I can believe that. Every new family that comes to live here says what a great place it is to bring up kids. They can run free outside, riding bikes or playing football, without any trouble."What happened last night is unbelievable. Paul and Coral are loving parents and everyone is devastated for them."Updated at 4.17pm BST 2.54pm BST Volunteers still keen to helpAnd still the volunteers come. Reporter Ciaran Jones has posted this on his Twitter account:Ciaran Jones (@ciaranjones1)At Machynlleth Leisure Centre. Cars as far as eye can see. Hundreds here ready to join searches for missing schoolgirl April JonesOctober 2, 2012 2.50pm BST Billboard campaignApril Jones's face will appear on digital billboards across the UK in a bid to encourage people to come forward with information. Martin Houghton-Brown, chief executive of the charity Missing People, said: Whilst abduction is very rare, when it happens, everyone must work together - the police, charities and the media.This digital billboard campaign is just one strand of that partnership. We sincerely hope that April is found safe and well very soon. 2.20pm BST Police questioning of childrenAs the Dyfed and Powys police speak to the child witnesses who were with April before she was taken, I have been reminded of remarks made by the French prosecutor leading the investigation into the brutal Annecy shootings last month. Investigators there were faced with the task of relying on two children- one aged four and the other aged seven- to work out what had happened during the murders of their parents and a French cyclist.Eric Maillaud told journalists the questioning process was obviously very different from that used with adults witnesses. He said: The idea is to get a child to say things without asking too many questions. Very often, children want to please and have a tendency to say 'yes' because they think that saying 'yes' is the right thing to do. And that can be disastrous for the investigation.Updated at 2.20pm BST 2.10pm BST Lunctime summaryPolice are appealing for information concerning the suspected abduction of five-year-old April Jones from Machynlleth in mid-Wales, who has been missing since yesterday evening and was last seen by another young child getting into the driver's seat of a grey vehicle resembling a Landrover or a Ford Connect. Police said she appeared to have got in "willingly".Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan said that the exact circumstances surrounding her disappearance were vague given the age of the witnesses. Police would be re-interviewing them, he said, but it was a "delicate and time-consuming" process. They have a vague description of the driver, he said, but not enough details to release yet.Investigators are poring over CCTV footage from the surrounding area and keen to talk to anyone who was around the Bryn-Y-Gog estate where April was playing when she was taken at around 7pm last night. Anyone with any information at all is urged to call the hotline on 0300 2000 333.Volunteers in the small market town of Machynlleth have converted their shock into community action, working throughout the day and again today to try to find the little girl. Police have organised them into groups of 20, each with an expert leader and a specific area to cover.Updated at 4.31pm BST 1.47pm BST CEOP role in investigationA team of experts from the child exploitation and online protection (CEOP) unit are on their way to Wales to assist in the hunt for April, reports my colleague Sandra Laville.The investigators will work alongside Dyfed Powys police.Charlie Hedges, manager of the missing, abducted and kidnapped childrens unit of CEOP is providing expert advice to senior officers within the force. He told Sandra: These early hours are crucial from the point of view of the investigation because what has happened is fresh in people's minds and because if April is being held somewhere the longer the time passes the more damage that might be done from a child protection point of view.He said calls to the rarely-used Child Rescue Alert system hotline number were answered through mutual aid by officers from a number of forces. The information was then channeled through to the incident room at Dyfed Powys police, he added. 1.41pm BST Social media searchAn update on the social media aspect to this unfolding story.Twitter says there have been more than 150,000 mentions of "April Jones", "FindApril" and "FindAprilJones" on the site since the five-year-old's disappearance last night.Within hours, famous names such as Philip Schofield, Davina McCall, Eamonn Homes and Stephen Fry had joined. Two messages from Schofield, see below, have been retweeted more than 9,000 times in total. Phillip Schofield (@Schofe)RT 5yr old April missing from Machynlleth around 7:30pm last night. Seen getting into a light coloured van. twitter.com/carlhudson2/st…October 2, 2012Phillip Schofield (@Schofe)Please RT If you have any information on missing 5 year old April Jones a hotline number has been released 0300 2000 333October 2, 2012 1.30pm BST Such is the close-knit nature of Machynlleth's community that there appears to be a growing sense that the April's disappearance is not connected to anyone from the town.Steffan Rhys (@Steffan_Rhys)“I cannot imagine that anyone local is responsible for this,” says Machynlleth shop owner Jacqueline Parsons. #findaprilOctober 2, 2012She also said: I would be amazed if it turned out to be anyone local. Everyone knows everyone here. You walk down the street and even if you don't know someone's name you speak to them. Everyone is friendly.People leave their backdoors open when they go out. It's that kind of place. This is so desperately sad. I hope it doesn't mean that the town will change and grow more suspicious. Whoever this turns out to be is not from around here.Updated at 1.32pm BST 1.22pm BST A co-ordinated searchThe police have said they were "very reassured" by the huge response from the local community, but how to ensure the search remains focused and organised?Out of the coordinating hub of the local leisure centre, volunteers have been divided into groups of 20 and each assigned an expert leader and an area to look through. Those taking part have reportedly been advised not to pick up any piece of child's clothing they discover for fear of disturbing the forensic evidence.  1.19pm BST "Desperate"This is the word being used repeatedly by locals in Machynlleth.James Humphries, 22, said he spent last night searching forestry land around the town with friends.  We only had two torches between us and it was very dark but we all felt we should be out there doing something rather than sitting around. We gave it about two hours.We thought the best thing to do was search somewhere we didn't think anyone else was looking. But the mood now is just desperate. I work at an ironmongers and I've never come in not wanting to talk, but there is nothing to say.Alwyn Evans, 30, told the Press Association he had taken the day off from the coffee shop where he works to help in the search. We are all feeling so desperate being out here in the rain doing something is better than sitting about waiting for news. I've been searching since 7am and then came out to do this. People will carry on here for as long as necessary. This is not something you dream could happen here. 1.09pm BST "She's everybody's child here"Earlier Steve Morris spoke to Alyson Jones, no relation, the owner of the local sweetshop. She said: She is one of my customers and has been ever since the beginning. So she's very dear to us all in town, and she feels like she's our child. She's everybody's child here. We're all just wanting to bring her home safe....The estate where she lives, it's full of children out playing and it could have been anybody's child. I just don't understand the motive for taking her. She's five, and she needs to be home with her parents and brothers and sisters.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Updated at 1.10pm BST 12.57pm BST The countryside around MachynllethAnother video snippet from Steve Morris gives a flavour of the wildness of the countryside around.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  12.56pm BST Scene near April's homeOur reporter at the scene, Steve Morris, has sent a brief video showing the scene near the family home in Machynlleth   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Updated at 12.56pm BST 12.50pm BST Interactive mapOur graphics team have produced an interactive map showing the key areas in the search for April. You can view it here. 12.42pm BST Police updateSuperintendent Ian John of Dyfed Powys police has been talking to Sky News. He had little more to add from the press conference, beyond that British Transport Police officers were helping with the search, and that police were "incredibly grateful" for the assistance of local people.Given the "very young" witness to the presumed abduction, he said, there was little more immediate information about the vehicle into which April got. Combing CCTV footage for a light-coloured van would, he agreed, be a "huge task". 12.32pm BST Police press conferenceHere's some more detailed quotes from Bevan at the press conference, which has finished: Witnesses told us about a small van - small at the front and large at the back. This could be interpreted to something similar Ford Connect van or something like Land Rover.April got into the driver's door so it may well be that she got in with driver or it could mean it's a left hand-drive vehicle. I am anxious to focus people's minds on that.The colour hasn't changed - it is described as grey but officers are mindful that it was dusk and there was street lighting on. The indications are that she got into the vehicle willingly... There's nothing to suggest at this stage there was a struggle. 12.24pm BST Possible vehicle  Ford Connect vanThis is Peter Walker briefly taking over from Lizzy. Police said witnesses described the van April got into as grey and resembling a Land Rover or a Ford Connect. Most people know what a Land Rover looks like - this is a Ford Connect.Updated at 12.27pm BST 12.12pm BST Police press conferenceAsked how April's family were coping, Bevan said it was "every family's worst nightmare to suffer a child go missing in this way.'' The family, as you would imagine, it must be their worst nightmare...It's a very, very difficult time for them.Updated at 12.13pm BST 12.10pm BST Police press conferenceWhile there are various lines of inquiry, the police say they are narrowing their investigation around the description of the vehicle. From the initial account given by child witnesses, they believe she entered the vehicle "willingly". Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan said there was nothing at this stage to indicate a struggle had taken place.Police will now be re-interviewing the child witnesses to try to firm up an account of what happened, and pore over CCTV footage- both municipal and private- for any sign of the vehicle. 12.06pm BST Police press conferenceApril was last seen at about 7pm. The police seem sure of this. They say she was last seen by her parents "earlier that evening", but do not give a specific time.Updated at 12.10pm BST 12.05pm BST Police press conferencePolice say they are still in the process of interviewing the witnesses – all of whom are children – which is a "delicate and time-consuming process".They have told officers they saw April getting into a vehicle which, from their description of "small at the front and large at the back", could perhaps be a Ford Connect or some kind of Land Rover.They say she got into the driver's side of the vehicle, which could either mean she got in with the driver or that the vehicle was a left-hand drive.Updated at 12.09pm BST 12.00pm BST It is hard to overplay, writes Steve Morris, what a tight community Machynlleth is.It is populated both by those whose families have lived here for generations and by many incomers attracted by the town's tradition as a liberal and environmentally-friendly place to live.Also need to emphasise how vast the landscapes are around the town – to the north the wilds of Snowdonia, to the south the huge emptiness of mid Wales.Just a few market towns and villages between here and the M4 corridor, two and a half hours away. Cut an hour and half inland east, though, and you hit the motorway network.The estate where the Jones family live is compact. No main road runs through it. It does not look like the sort of place from which an abductor would be able to grab a child unnoticed.Updated at 12.08pm BST 11.45am BST At the Labour party conference in Manchester, the shadow Welsh secretary, Owen Smith, has just said the "thoughts and prayers" of the nation are with April and her parents, Coral and Paul. I am sure I speak for everyone here today and everyone in Wales in saying that our thoughts and our prayers are with April Jones and her family in Machynlleth - the little girl who has gone missing.We all hope and pray that she is back in her community and with her family as soon as is humanly possible.Updated at 11.52am BST 11.39am BST The Guardian's Steven Morris has been talking to people in the shell-shocked town of Machynlleth.He reports:Extraordinary scenes in Macnynlleth. On a normal weekday this is a bustling market town. There's hardly anyone on the streets today. Most shops are closed – though almost all have Missing posters in their windows. There is nobody in the pubs, nobody on the nine-hole golf course.Just about the whole of the 2,000-strong population seems to be either searching for the missing schoolgirl or preparing to do so.The only busy place in the leisure centre. Hundreds of people are milling around it waiting for instructions from those co-ordinating the search. It is not only townspeople here. People have driven from all over mid Wales to lend a hand.Tina Jones, a photographer, said she had chosen to live in Machynlleth because she felt it was so safe. It's the sort of place where everyone knows everyone, a very tight-knit community. I know April's family – they are lovely people, the sort to get involved in the life of the town.I think everyone is in shock at what's happened but are just doing all they can to get out there and find her.People are racking their brains to think of ways to help. Alyson Jones, who owns a local sweet shop, was out last night with her dog checking the park and outhouses. This morning she was on her computer networking with other independent sweet shops around the country, asking them to be on the lookout for anything strange. If she's upset you'd think whoever has got her might buy her some sweets to calm her down. It's just a matter of thinking of how you can help.April is a regular customer. She's a lovely little girl, we've known her since she was born. We think of her as one of ours.Updated at 12.11pm BST 11.31am BST Child Rescue AlertPolice are attempting to coordinate the hundreds of volunteers who want to join the search by organising the local area into grids. Meanwhile Charlie Hedges has said a Child Rescue Alert (CRA) has been launched in the search for April, a step taken in order to best coordinate the police service, the media and the public. The number being given out by police- 0300 2000 300- is that of the CRA system. The CRA is based on the AMBER alert system which has been in use in the United States since 1997. (AMBER stands for "America's Missing Broadcasting Emergency Response" and is a programme dedicated to all abducted children nationwide.)It would not necessarily be launched immediately after the disappearance of any child, he said, but in this case there appeared little doubt of the need given April's age and the reports of her getting into a vehicle.He told Sky News: The response depends on the assessment of the risk and clearly with a five-year-old...the risk cannot be much higher. 11.03am BST Community searchIt's worth a recap of how Machynlleth's highly engaged, interactive community is acting response to April's disappearance. Local binmen have downed tools to pitch in with the search effort. A spokesman for Powys County Council said: "Refuse and recycling collections in the town have been suspended for the day and the town's civic amenity centre has been closed.The local Quarry cafe is distributing food and hot drinks to the helpers.The local garage reopened at 11.30pm and stayed open last night to ensure locals had enough petrol to keep going with their search.Many people socialising in the Skinners Arms in Penrallt Street left the pub to join the search upon hearing the news last night.Many people have reportedly not gone to work today in order to take part in the hunt.Updated at 11.03am BST 10.41am BST VolunteersGuardian reporter Steve Morris has arrived in Machynlleth. steven morris(@stevenmorris20)Amazing scene at Machynlleth leisure centre. Hundreds here to search for #ApriljonesOctober 2, 2012steven morris(@stevenmorris20)The scene at Machynlleth leisure centre. twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 2, 2012Updated at 10.56am BST 10.35am BST Ceop brought inThe Child Exploitation and Online protection unit (Ceop) has been called in to help police in their hunt, reports my colleague Sandra Laville.Charlie Hedges, Ceop manager for missing, abducted and kidnapped children, is liaising with Dyfed Powys police as they mount a nationwide appeal for information which might lead to them finding April.Updated at 10.59am BST 10.34am BST Police searchThe police have announced a press conference will take place in Aberystwyth at 11.45.Two helicopters have been requested in order to help with the search.  10.21am BST Community actionStaff at the Quarry Cafe, a community hub in Machynlleth owned by the Centre for Alternative Technology, are preparing food and hot drinks to take over to the volunteers at the leisure centre.Linda Wenman told me it was locals' way of responding to an event which has thrown a usually quiet and safe town into shock. She said: The community is pulling together. We're making some food to send over, and some free tea and coffee. Lots of people are doing that sort of thing. She said Machynlleth- which has a population of just over 2,000 people- was the kind of place where "everybody knows everybody", although she did not know the Jones family herself.In normal times, she said, the historic market town was a "very friendly, very safe, very community-based" place.  10.06am BST Social media useThe search for April has taken off on social media, with several Facebook pages and networks attracting thousands of members and comments.Earlier today, the hashtag #FindApril was trending on Twitter. Currently April Jones is trending, with thousands re-tweeting messages raising awareness about her disappearance.On one Facebook page, a user called Clare Jackson writes that the community has been "totally shocked and overwhelmed" by the suspected abduction. She adds: I moved here from Manchester to give my children the same childhood I had in the seventies- the freedom to be able to play out, climb trees, play by the river etc.This is a wonderfully safe place with hardly any crime and my three boys often play out away from the home without me worrying about them.Please don't judge these parents; if you knew Mach and Aberystwyth you would know its a wonderful, safe community based place where everyone knows each other and people look out for each other... I hope and pray they return little April to her parents where she belongs.Updated at 10.41am BST 9.42am BST Volunteers searchLocal volunteers have swung into action today, after combing the area until around 5am. Sky News's David Crabtree writes:David Crabtree (@Skymids)We can hear searchers calling April Jones's name in the woods.October 2, 2012Volunteers are reported to have come from all over Wales in order to help out. A local petrol station worker, Nerys Zjalic, told ITV she had been drafted in to keep the garage open all night.  One lady came in and she had come from Caernarfon, which is North Wales, so I suppose you are looking at 80-odd miles. She said 'I saw it on Facebook and I couldn't sleep, so I came down'. It is a 60 mile journey from Caernarfon to Machynlleth. Another local Sian Lewis, meanwhile, has said she is leaving from Aberystwyth in order to help with the hunt.Sian Lewis (@Siiiaaannniii)Can't bear to be in Aber not doing anything,I'm going to Mach to see if I can do something,anything to help #FindAprilOctober 2, 2012Updated at 9.45am BST 9.32am BST MachynllethBoth the place April is reported to have gone missing- the Bryn-Y-Gog estate- and her family home- on Garth Road are in the east of Machynlleth. This map shows the approximate locations.  9.17am BST In the statement below, the police described the details of what happened to April as "vague"- and Detective Superintendent Reg Bevan of Dyfed-Powys Police has said this is due to the young age of the potential witnesses.He told the BBC: It's a delicate and difficult process interviewing young children who were the witnesses to this. That's continuing - it commenced last night and it will continue this morning and hopefully I will have more information for you later. 9.13am BST Steffan Rhys, a Welsh journalist on the scene in Machynlleth, has posted a picture of April in the purple coat she was wearing yesterday evening.Steffan Rhys (@Steffan_Rhys)This is April Jones in the coat she was wearing last night when she was abducted #findapril twitter.com/Steffan_Rhys/s…October 2, 2012Updated at 9.17am BST 9.10am BST New informationDyfed Powys police recently released this new information about April's disappearance. A spokeswoman said: Her abduction took place around 7pm in the Bryn Y Gog estate in Machynlleth. It was witnessed by another young child when April was seen getting into a grey or light-coloured van, or van-sized vehicle.While the details of what happened are vague at the current time, it appears the suspect left the scene and drove off with April.At the time of her disappearance, April was wearing a purple knee-length coat with grey fur around the hood, her school white polo top and black trousers.Many police officers and specialist teams have worked through the night, with extensive searches taking place, and many lines of inquiry are being pursued.Updated at 9.18am BST 9.06am BST Search for missing girlPolice and volunteers have been searching through the night for five-year-old April Jones, a child from the mid-Wales town of Machynlleth who went missing last night while out playing with a friend.Police have said they suspect the primary school pupil, who was wearing her white school top and a purple coat, was abducted. Another child has reported seeing her get into a "grey or light-coloured van or van-sized vehicle".Hundreds of locals are reported to have joined in the search for April, and are urging more people to come and help. Police are asking anyone with any information to call 0300 2000 333.I'll be keeping this blog updated with news from the search throughout the day. You can contact me on my email- lizzy.davies@guardian.co.uk- or on Twitter @lizzy_davies.Updated at 9.06am BST