A mother murdered her 16-month-old baby with a lethal dose of salt just days after he was released from hospital, it was alleged yesterday.Joshua Williams had been born 12 weeks early and had spent the first few months of his life under constant medical supervision.But only days after he was sent home Joshua was brought back to hospital with a "dangerously high level" of sodium, probably table salt. He died three days later, Winchester crown court heard.The court was told that his mother, Marianne Williams, force fed her son around three and a half teaspoons of salt, knowing it would kill him because his underdeveloped kidneys could not cope. She denies murder and an alternative count of manslaughter.Ms Williams, who comes from Wiltshire, was allegedly given clear instructions by doctors and nurses about how to look after her baby before taking him home. But the court heard that as her partner, Paul Taylor, slept, she poisoned her son with table salt. He became severely ill and was rushed to hospital. Despite the efforts of doctors, Joshua died three days later at Southampton general hospital in February 2004.Detectives concluded there was no innocent explanation for the amount of salt in his blood and Ms Williams was arrested.Richard Smith QC, prosecuting, told the court: "This is a case about a mother who is responsible for unlawfully taking the life of her own baby son ... Joshua had in effect been poisoned by a sodium salt overdose. The crown says that the evidence leads to a sad but inevitable conclusion, namely that Marianne Williams administered that sodium that caused her own son's death."Mr Smith added that Ms Williams had carried out an act which was "entirely unnatural and unthinkable". Joshua had originally been one of twins but the other child died in the womb. He was born weighing just 2lbs 10oz, and had a number of medical problems, including very small kidneys. As a result he needed intensive medical care and spent much of his early life in hospital.Mr Smith said that as an adult Joshua might have required dialysis and a kidney transplant: "It was a long haul that would require an extraordinary amount of demands on those having his care."Three weeks before his death, the court heard, Joshua had been treated for an excessive amount of salt in his body and was left fighting for his life. Mr Smith said: "After this it was abundantly evident to the defendant that a raised level of sodium would put a child in very grave danger and that fatal consequences could follow."Once Joshua was well he was allowed home for a "test run" of one night. He was checked the following day and found to be satisfactory. The court heard that nursing staff handed a "happy and smiling" Joshua to his parents, only for him to return a few days later with fatal levels of sodium in his blood.The hearing continues.