A 15-year-old victim of an "honour" killing whispered a warning to her lover that her family were trying to lure him into a trap hours before she was murdered, a court heardtoday.Tulay Goren was allegedly killed by her father, Mehmet, on 7 January 1999, and her body disposed of with the help of his brothers Ali and Cuma because she began a relationship with a man who followed a different branch of Islam. Her body was never found.Speaking from behind a screen and through an interpreter, Tulay's boyfriend, Turkish-born Halil Unal, 41, said she had called him secretly from her father's house in Woodford Green, north-east London, a day after being snatched from his flat."She said to me, 'Halil don't come over. They are trying to lure you into a trap.' I said: 'OK, but if they are trying to lure me into a trap they are probably setting up you as well.' She did not answer. She put down the phone." They were the last words Unal ever heard her speak, he told the jury.Tulay had run away from home to live with Unal in the weeks before she was allegedly killed, two months before her 16th birthday, the jury heard. The couple had been trying to persuade her family to allow them to marry, but on 6 January 1999 her mother, Hanim, and father took her back home. There followed phone calls between the Goren family and Unal, to discuss if they were to be allowed a future together.Unal described to the court the family counsels that preceded so-called honour crimes. He said: "In our honour customs, the elder members of the family, they gather in their homes … and they make a decision, either to get two people together or to lose the two people, in other words to kill them."He told the court that following Tulay's warning, her father called Unal again to ask if he was coming over."I told him, 'If I do come over it will be with two police officers." He said: 'Why would you want to bring the police? You're my son.' I said: 'There's no way on earth I'm coming over.'""To this he said: 'I fuck your mother,' and uttered unspeakable abuse and obscenities to me."Two weeks later, Mehmet Goren tricked Unal into meeting him on the pretext of helping him look for a suitable flat for the couple to live, the court heard. During the meeting, at the Thatched House pub in Leytonstone, east London, Unal was told he could marry Tulay. "At this news I became tearful and emotional and I got up on my feet and kissed my father-in-law on the hand, a Turkish custom which denotes respect," Unal told the jury.But moments later, after persuading Unal to accompany him outside to call Tulay about the news, Goren attacked him with an axe on the neck, leaving him with a wound that was "gushing blood"."I saw something in his hand and it was shining. It was the light shining on [the axe]. He wanted to kill me because that's the decision they make. In the custom of honour they are either going to kill off the girl or kill both of them together."I have a clean heart and that's why I am alive now. I don't care if the Goren family kill me now. I've waited 10 years to be here. I am in stress and fear every day."Goren was arrested over Tulay's disappearance in 1999 but maintained she had simply run off, and no further action was taken. Mehmet Goren, Cuma Goren, and Ali Goren deny Tulay's murder. They also deny conspiracy to murder Unal between 1 May 1998 and 2 February 1999.The trial continues.