Mike Ballard, you could argue, is an artist who is either contemptible, or brave, or both. Either way, by the time you read this, there's a good chance he will have been punched on the nose or run in by the police – both things that happen less often to artists than, in an ideal world, they would. He has just opened an exhibition – Whose Coat Is That Jacket You're Wearing? – consisting of 200-odd coats (or jackets) that Ballard has stolen in a decade-long kleptomaniac spree kicked off, he says, by his own favourite coat being nicked from a pub shortly after he came to live in London.Now that he has run out of space to store his collection of hooky menswear, Ballard is exhibiting them as art, at a tailor's shop in London. Some people will think this is rather old hat – there has, after all, been a rotating exhibition of stolen bicycles in London's Brick Lane market for years. But I find it intriguing. It seems to raise interesting questions – although not the rather humdrum one the artist thinks he's raising ("What is art?").No, the main question it raises in my mind is: how can we be so sure these things really are stolen? What a swizz to attend the exhibition suspecting that, actually, he's just picked up a bunch of crappy old coats from charity shops and claimed to have nicked them. When I asked Ballard about this (the show not being open at the time of writing), he said: "Because I'm telling you so. Come to the exhibition and see. There's more than 200 coats there." He sounds persuasive, though he says he hasn't stolen a coat since 2009, having sought treatment for what he calls an "obsession". His victims are now invited to present themselves to reclaim their coats: "That's it. I want them out of my life."If Ballard had real cojones, he would present proof – what curators call "provenance" and the police call "evidence" – that the items really don't belong to him. Then, if the second part of the exhibition became a site-specific performance at Bow Street magistrates' court, everyone would be happy.The connection between art and criminality goes way back – Caravaggio was a bit stabby, Jean Genet a bit stealy. But criminality as art itself? There's a difference. There was a certain swagger to the Brink's-Mat heist, but having your coat nicked is deeply annoying: even more annoying than most conceptual art. Ballard explains his work by quoting Picasso: "Good artists copy; great artists steal." But Picasso didn't say: "Good artists copy; great artists steal other people's coats from the pub." TS Eliot said something similar: "Immature poets imitate; mature poets steal." If he'd added "hubcaps", Seamus Heaney's career would have looked altogether different.Referencing his background in hip-hop, which has its own history of appropriation and collage, Ballard sees the coats as having been "sampled from the population of London", which is one way of putting it. The exhibition is subtitled "a commentary on consumerism, appropriation and art history", inspired by Duchamp, Emin, Manzoni, Marshall McLuhan and the Situationists. Not only is this guy a thieving bastard, he's a pretentious thieving bastard.But the project does at least bear witness to the transformative power of art. Time and again over the last decade, Ballard has transformed coat owners into angry former coat owners, and ruined countless journeys home in the rain. Now he claims he's "seeking redemption", not by handing his stash and himself into the Old Bill, but by using these stolen coats in the furtherance of his career. Among the pocket contents trailed on Ballard's website are credit cards and mobile phones – so some owners, at least, might be easy to trace. Yet, he still requires the poor sod whose coat he stole to come along and get it back, thereby swelling the numbers at his show, which doesn't sound like a very earnest apology.Ballard says he's already had emails "calling me all sorts". Furthermore, he'll only return the coats if owners can provide proof they belong to them. That's just the sort of fusty curatorial control freakery that transgressive shows like this seek to undermine.So the obvious riposte is for everyone who has ever had their coat stolen to go en masse and nick Ballard's exhibition in its entirety. Then we could mount a counter-exhibition called Whose Exhibition Is That Idea We've Seen Before? Maybe see you there. No jacket required.