The Prison Service is bracing itself for serious criticism over its failure to protect vulnerable female inmates this week as it awaits the verdict of an inquest into the death of an 18-year-old woman with a history of self-harm and mental illness.Sarah Campbell took an overdose of prescription pills in the segregation unit of Styal Prison, Cheshire, in January 2003. The inquest into her death at Warrington Town Hall has heard allegations that staff at the prison failed to register concerns about her mental health. There has also been criticism of the systematic use of the segregation unit for vulnerable prisoners. Campbell was the third of six women to die at the prison between August 2002 and August 2003 and has become a cause célèbre due to the tireless campaigning of her mother, Pauline, who has mounted protests outside women's prisons across the country. After the jury comes to its decision, Coroner Nicholas Rheinberg has indicated he will make recommendations about changes that could be made to the women's prison system to minimise the risk of suicide. The inquest has heard evidence from prisons ombudsman Stephen Shaw, who carried out an inquiry into Styal after the death of the sixth woman, Julie Walsh. He said he was 'deeply uncomfortable' about placing women at risk of suicide into segregation units, which are designed mainly for those at risk from other inmates. The inquest heard that prisoners in the unit could only communicate by speaking through the hinges of their cell door. Shaw said the prison had made improvements since he first began his investigation, but campaigners believe the Styal cases demonstrate the need for an overhaul of women's prisons as a whole. Deborah Coles, of Inquest, which works with the families of those who die in prison or police custody, said: 'We need a fundamental review of the way women are dealt with by the criminal justice system. This should be a stepping stone to reform.' The Home Office will not comment until the last of the Styal inquests, due in April. The Styal deathsNissa Ann Smith, 20, hanged 10 August 2002 Anna Baker, 29, hanged 26 November 2002 Sarah Campbell, 18, overdosed 18 January 2003 Jolene Willis, 25, hanged 20 April 2003 Hayley Williams, 41, hanged 1 June 2003 Julie Walsh, 39, overdosed 12 August 2003