The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, yesterday announced plans to ban the possession of deactivated guns by the end of the year during a visit to Liverpool, where she met the parents of 11-year-old Rhys Jones, who was shot dead near his home last summer. Smith said the weapons, which can be converted back into lethal use, were "turning up more and more" in gun-related crime.She is thought to have discussed the progress of the murder inquiry during her private meeting with Steve and Melanie Jones. No one has been charged with killing Rhys, although more than 20 people have been arrested. Detectives have repeatedly been given the name of one teenage suspect alleged to be the hooded rider of a mountain bike who fired three shots across a pub car park in August. Rhys is thought to have been the innocent victim of a long-running feud between gangs in Croxteth and Norris Green.Smith appealed to local people to help police to secure a conviction. "The police and their partners are doing everything they can to catch the person who killed Rhys, though they can't do that on their own," she said. "We need people to come forward and give information." She said she understood why people were afraid to give information but witnesses could be offered protection. "I know the police are working extremely hard to get evidence to find the person who did this. But they need the help of the community."The announcement came as 31 people were arrested following drug raids by 200 officers on homes in gangland areas of Liverpool on either side of the Croxteth Park estate, where Rhys lived.Home Office estimates suggest that 120,000 deactivated guns are in circulation. Many are owned by collectors but others are used by criminals. Most were deactivated before 1995, when new standards made it harder to restore the guns' firing power. "The police tell me these pre-1995 weapons are turning up more and more in gun-related crime and I want to address these concerns, to effectively eliminate the threat from our streets," said Smith.Police said those arrested in yesterday's raids ranged in age from 17 to 48. Twenty-six were arrested on suspicion of supplying class A drugs. Five other people were arrested in connection with other alleged offences. During the raids, officers seized £13,000 in cash, three handguns, imitation firearms, two ball bearing guns, ammunition and quantities of cocaine, heroin and ecstasy.