It is now more than a month since the storm broke over foreign prisoners released into the community when they should have been considered for deportation. But rather than abating, it howls louder by the day. Those who work with foreign prisoners - who make up one in eight of the our prison population - say that if your name doesn't have an Anglo-Saxon ring to it, now is not a good moment to be doing time in the UK.Since April 25, when the foreign prisoner story broke, at least 200 - perhaps many more - foreign inmates have been moved, without warning, from open prisons to closed ones. It seems unlikely, to say the least, that all of them had "offended against prison discipline" - the usual reason for such transfers. Last Friday, 300 prison officers in riot gear rounded up 135 foreign nationals at Ford open prison, Sussex, to be taken to closed jails. The previous week, according to a prison source, 30 foreign inmates were transferred from Latchmere House, a highly regarded resettlement prison in west London, to closed jails in the London area.Similar exercises have been carried out across the country, although yesterday a home office spokesman said only that "around 70" prisoners had been removed from open prisons in this "temporary measure".Lawyers and organisations such as the Prisoners' Advice Service have heard from scores of prisoners who have been suddenly moved in this way. Many are EU citizens; a few, though born overseas, even have British passports. Meanwhile, prisoners who were expecting to move from closed to open conditions have been told that the transfers are cancelled. At least some were not expecting to be deported at their end of their sentences. Elsewhere, prisoners who had been released under licence have suddenly been hauled back to jail. Some of these also had no reason to expect to be deported.Among this last group was Antonio Guarita. By his own admission, the 44-year-old Portuguese man has not been a model citizen since he arrived in the UK seven years ago. He used drugs, had several run-ins with the police and, in 2004, was sentenced to three years for robbery. The judge did not recommend that he be deported on his release from jail, but one might still have thought he was precisely the type of foreign national that Britain could do without.Except that while in jail, Guarita began to turn his life around. He came across the work of the St Giles Trust, a London-based charity that works with the homeless and disadvantaged offenders. He successfully completed a course in advising and guidance and worked with prisoners as a peer adviser. On his release, he obtained a six-month placement, working with the homeless at the Thamesreach Bondway resource centre in London. He was so successful that he was offered a full-time job with the St Giles Trust. He had a flat, a new job and was off drugs. To cap it all, last week he was due to receive an adult learners' award from the mayor of Southwark.Guarita did not collect his award. The police picked him up the day before the ceremony. He is now in Forest Bank prison, Manchester, awaiting deportation proceedings. There is no suggestion that he has committed a crime since his release. It seems simply that he is a victim of the clampdown on foreigners.Writing from prison, Guarita feels he is in "the middle of a political incorrectness" and expresses his sadness at not being able to repay the trust placed in him. "He had paid employment, a flat and a future," says Diane Gault, from the St Giles Trust. "Was all that hard work and commitment for nothing? He would have a been an asset to the community and we want him back."It's anyone's guess how long Guarita will have to wait before he is either released or deported. Because there is another side to the foreign prisoner scandal - one we don't get to hear about. Foreign prisoners frequently remain in jail for months after they have served their time. This extended detention has been a blot on the penal landscape for many years. In 2004, a prisoner, said by staff to be extremely depressed at being detained for many weeks after his sentence ended, apparently took his own life.This is the flipside to all the bureaucracy, confusion and piled-up paperwork: while some prisoners may be released when they should have been deported, others are kept locked up long after they should have been set free. Foreign prisoners have always found it harder to cope with imprisonment in this country than British inmates do. In 2004 a report by the Prison Reform Trust highlighted their main problems: these included lack of information, the language barrier and a sense of isolation. More seriously, the report concluded that there were significant concerns relating to mental health, racism and disrespect.The procedures for dealing with applications for parole, transfers to lower category prisons, or release on temporary licence are all different to those for UK nationals, in that the Immigration and Nationality Directorate must be consulted. Such applications can take months to process. Why so long? A Home Office official has told the Guardian that out of the 4,000 staff at the headquarters of the Prison Service, the National Offenders Management Service and the National Probation Directorate, just three people are responsible for dealing with all foreign national prisoners. A spokesman for the Prison Service said yesterday that another 100 staff were being recruited.Open jails can play a valuable part in prisoners' transition from custody to the community, thanks to "resettlement schemes" that allow inmates to work outside prison during the day. For any prisoner, transfer to an open jail has always involved the strictest of vetting procedures. Recently, they seem to have become even stricter, although a home office spokesman said yesterday that: "The Prison Service does not operate a blanket ban on those foreign national prisoners potentially subject to deportation being allocated to open prisons."Some inmates' representatives claim the prison service's "risk-assessment" is deeply flawed. One London law firm, Bhatt Murphy, has started legal proceedings on behalf of two prisoners who were suddenly moved from open to closed prisons last week. Solicitor Simon Creighton says that the men, of Carribean and Asian origins, are both British passport holders who cannot be deported - but that the Home Office is wrongly looking at where people were born in order to identify them. He said that other prisoners have contacted his firm for advice.Nicki Rensten, from the Prisoners' Advice Service, says her organisation has long been concerned about foreign nationals who have completed their criminal sentences and are awaiting deportation. She says they frequently wait for long periods after their release date for removal to take place. "This is frustrating, both for them and the families who are waiting for them in their own countries," she says.The PAS has files on prisoners who were kept behind bars for several months after they should have been deported. In 2004, the organisation had to begin court proceedings to compel the Home Office to remove a Romanian man who was still in custody, in Wandsworth prison, south London, after his sentence had expired. Rensten says that, even after the Home Office and Wandsworth had agreed the man could be removed, the deportation was cancelled because an employee of a private security firm, working for the Immigration Service, had to be present before the man could be put on the plane.Rensten regularly attends meetings of the foreign national prisoner group at Wandsworth prison, which is believed to hold more foreign prisoners than any other prison in England and Wales. She says that, without doubt, the most frequent complaint she hears is about the time that "post-sentence" prisoners who are not fighting deportation must wait to return home.The Home Office says it does not have a figure for the number of foreign prisoners who have served their sentences but are still in jail awaiting deportation. However, a prison official confirms that each prison has a rollboard that lists the numbers held and breaks them down according to status. Those who are detained solely because they are waiting to be removed are listed as "Sole Detainees". Last week, during a visit to Brixton prison, in south London, I asked an officer working on the foreign national wing how many sole detainees were in his charge. He gave me the answer - 11 - immediately, which makes one wonder why the Home Office could not have asked the same question.For at least one foreign national prisoner the battle with the Home Office is over. In February 2004, Kingsley Williamson was nearing the end of a three-year sentence imposed for possession of class A drugs. A Jamaican, Williamson had been told that he would be deported at the end of his sentence. As with much that emanates from the Home Office, there is some confusion as to whether he accepted the order or not. An internal prison service report says that he had appealed against the decision, but that does not appear to tally with the circumstances of the latter part of his sentence, or with an account from a fellow prisoner and a prison official.Williamson had been a model prisoner and had spent the last few months of his term in Hollesley Bay, an open prison in Suffolk. He was working in a school in Ipswich as part of a resettlement programme, returning on time each evening. A former fellow prisoner says that Williamson had accepted the removal order and was making plans for a new life in Jamaica.On February 26, a few days before he was due to be discharged, Williamson was suddenly taken to Norwich jail and told he would remain there until his deportation papers came through. On March 14 - two weeks after his discharge date - he was found hanging in his cell on B-wing. The inquest has yet to decide how he met his death, but a member of staff at Norwich has told the Guardian that Kingsley was depressed at the prospect of a long wait for deportation. The source also says that it was very unlikely that he would have remained in open conditions for so long if, in fact, he had been fighting the removal order.Whatever the truth, Kingsley's death did not merit as much as a line in a national newspaper.