A government scheme forcing offenders doing community service to wear high-visibility vests has been criticised by probation officers and Liberty, the civil rights group.Ministers say the fluorescent orange vests - which have "community payback" written on the back in purple to label offenders doing manual work - are intended to improve public confidence in community punishments.However, those opposed to the vests - 10,000 of which have already been ordered – say they could make offenders a target for gangland attacks. Probation officers have demanded that health and safety assessments are carried out to ensure the safety of staff and offenders.Harry Fletcher, the assistant general secretary of Napo, the probation officers' union, said he was concerned about high-visibility vests increasing attacks."The government is claiming that this initiative is being introduced to raise public awareness," he said. "That can be done in other ways, for example by a plaque after the work is completed. The real intention of the vests is to make the government look tougher on crime and to demean the offenders."The union has referred the issue to the Equality and Human Rights Commission, on the grounds that vests could lead to ethnic or racial stereotyping.However, the government's crime adviser, Louise Casey, said this morning that the policy was supported by the British public."You have to get your head round the fact: whose side are we on in all of this?," she said on GMTV today. "Are we on the side of the criminals or are we on the side of the public?"If we have got to get the public to come forward, give evidence, report crime and feel confident the British justice system is on their side they've got to see consequences for criminals. End of story."The director of Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, said it was a "medieval" scheme. "When someone has lost their self-respect and committed crime, the last thing to do is degrade them further," she said. "We hope that no-one is harmed as a result of this medieval justice - it's cheap and nasty, not the sort of thing we want in a civilised country."But the justice secretary, Jack Straw, defended the vests, saying senior probation managers could order the withdrawal of the vests if there was a genuine fear of attacks against criminals."I have looked at the details of the attacks that have taken place. Always they have taken place not because the offender has been wearing any kind of visible clothing ... but because they are known to their attacker,'' he told BBC's Radio 4."The purpose of having these high-visibility jackets is, above all, to strengthen the confidence of the public in community punishments because too few of the public believe at the moment these are effective and are other than a soft option."