A police officer preyed on vulnerable women he met on duty and then raped them over an eight-year period, a court heard today.PC Stephen Mitchell, 42, from Glasgow, denies five counts of rape, six of indecent assault and 15 charges of misconduct in public office. The officer, was based at Pilgrim Street police station in Newcastle, where he came across heroin addicts and other vulnerable women.The offences were alleged to have taken place between 1999 and 2007, Newcastle crown court heard. Mitchell had worked for Northumbria police for just a year when he carried out the first alleged attack.On the first day of the trial, Paul Sloan QC, prosecuting, said: "It was during the course of his duties that the defendant came into contact with each of the complainants in this case. As well as being known to the police, each of the complainants was a vulnerable female, whether because of drug abuse, health problems, domestic circumstances or a combination of those factors."The defendant took advantage of their vulnerabilities, usually providing or offering favours but then requesting, or in some cases requiring by force, sexual favours in return."Mitchell joined Northumbria police in 1998, the court heard.A heroin addict claimed Mitchell had unprotected sex with her at her home, having got her address after she was arrested, the prosecution claimed.The woman, now 36, was questioned at Pilgrim Street police station after she was held on suspicion of handling stolen goods. The court heard she claims he had told her he could get her bailed, but he had wanted a "favour" in return. He groped her in an interview room and, having got her address, said he would see her that night.That evening he asked her to perform a sex act on him, which the woman did. The next night he visited her Newcastle home again, and had unprotected sex with her, Sloan said."Over the next few months, the defendant continued to frequent her home address on a regular basis and engage in sexual activity with her," Sloan told the court. It continued until she moved house, she alleged.Sloan also said Mitchell repeatedly raped a heroin addict who asked him to help her win back her children from care.The woman, now in her 30s and from North Tyneside, said he gave her heroin when he picked her up in his car and even gave her money to buy foil and a lighter from a shop so she could take it. The prosecutor said Mitchell then told her: "I have done you a favour, I want you to do one for me." He then forced her to commit a sex act on him, the court was told.Several days later, he threatened to plant heroin in her home if she did not get into his car, where she performed another sex act. The next day the defendant drove her to a dirt track, Sloan said."This time, in addition to the threat to plant drugs, the defendant was telling her that if she did not do as he said he would ensure that her children were taken away from her for good," Sloan said. "This time he raped her."He forced himself on her several more times, the court heard. He promised the woman he would help her get her children back, though she never did. He also gave her more drugs.After she was arrested for failing to attend a court hearing, she was granted bail and he drove her home.On the way, he parked up and made her carry out sex acts on him, the court was told. He allegedly raped her and covered her mouth when she screamed, the prosecution told the court. Mitchell allegedly told her: "It'll be over soon and I'll let you go."The trial continues.