I come in for a lot of criticism from defensive men when I write or speak publicly about domestic and sexual violence. Many Cif readers post angry comments when I suggest that it is more than a handful of men who rape, beat, pimp, and otherwise abuse females. If I implied that only a few seriously deranged men harm women and children, then I would be more popular among the apologists for violence towards women.Well sorry folks, but I am going to try and tempt you out of your comfort zone once and for all. A significant number of men abuse a significant number of women and children. I am not saying that all men are rapists. I am arguing, based on solid fact rather than speculation and guesswork, that more men than you are prepared to admit commit acts of sexual violence.During my 28 years of campaigning to end sexual violence, I have amassed shedloads of evidence that proves this point. Here is the latest. A Welsh assembly member called Nerys Evans sent a questionnaire on sexual violence to all 60 AMs. Of the eight that responded, three disclosed they had been raped. Five said they knew someone who had been sexually assaulted. One was the victim of domestic violence. All eight knew of someone who had experienced domestic violence. No one directly affected had reported the crimes to the police.Evans said she was surprised at the results. "They are pretty shocking. It just shows how widespread violence against women and domestic abuse is." I am not. Nor will other women working in the field of sexual violence be surprised. A separate survey of students, also released today, found that over one-third thought a woman was at least partially responsible for being raped or sexually assaulted if she was drunk. Almost two-thirds knew women whose partners had hit them, and 41% knew women who had been coerced or pressurised into sex.Let's look at the other statistics. One in four women experience domestic violence at some point in their lives and 10 kill themselves because of it every week. Two are murdered each week. For women under 44, it is the most common cause of morbidity – above both cancer and road accidents.Three million women across the UK suffer violence each year, including rape, domestic violence, forced marriage, stalking, and sexual exploitation and trafficking/prostitution. Almost half of women in England and Wales experience domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking in their lifetime. One in five women in Northern Ireland experience domestic violence. More than 900 rapes were reported to the police in Scotland in 2006/7. According to government figures, violence against women costs £40bn a year in England and Wales alone.My question is this: how can only a few men be abusing women? Even if a small number of men made it their life's work to commit acts of sexual brutality, they would not be able to chalk up the numbers involved. So let's admit it, once and for all – way too many men abuse way too many women. You cannot hide behind your smokescreen any longer. Get over your sulk, and become part of the solution. At the moment, men who deny the prevalence are as much part of the problem as those who directly harm women.