Three youths were yesterday convicted of kicking and beating a man to death outside his own home after a seven-hour drinking binge.Garry Newlove was "kicked like a football" by a gang of youths whom he had challenged after they vandalised vehicles outside his house in Warrington, Cheshire. After the verdict police demanded a crackdown on cheap alcohol.Adam Swellings, 19, Stephen Sorton, 17, and Jordan Cunliffe, 16, were convicted at Chester crown court of murdering the father of three in an assault witnessed by his family. Two other youths were acquitted after the jury deliberated for more than 55 hours.It emerged during the trial that some of the youths were living a "feral" lifestyle in a house vacated by one of their parents.The youths knocked their victim to the ground, and punched and kicked him causing fatal injuries. Newlove's eldest daughter, Zoe, 18, said they kicked his head "like a football". Such was the force of the kicks that there was an imprint of a trainer on his head and a trainer lodged under his body.Police had confiscated alcohol from the gang earlier that day, but they had been able to buy more.Peter Fahy, the chief constable of Cheshire, said Britain's drink culture had to change and his officers were spending far too much of their time dealing with drunken young males and the consequences of the alcohol industry.He demanded an increase in the price of alcohol and a crackdown on its availability, to stop it falling into hands of "feral" youths who then went on to commit violent attacks."Officers would say they police the alcohol industry. They take the kid home and the next weekend they do the same thing." He said supermarkets and off-licences were selling alcohol too cheaply. "The price in supermarkets has reduced while it has increased in pubs and clubs. Celebrity culture says getting drunk is a good thing," he said.Some of the youths who attacked Newlove were "reasonably decent people who drink too much and do something stupid and attack someone", he said, adding: "It is an awful tragedy for the Newlove family and for the youngsters who ruin their lives by drinking too much."The age limit for buying alcohol from off licences should be raised to 21, he said.Newlove was attacked in August last year after leaving his house, barefoot, to remonstrate with a gang who had smashed the window of a digger parked nearby. His daughter Amy, who had been reading in her bedroom, had called him after looking out of her window and seen a youth kicking her mother's car.Three months earlier, Newlove had met his local police community support officer to discuss youth disorder and outline his plans for a Neighbourhood Watch. However, no action had been taken.During the attack, Newlove curled up into a foetal position with his hands over his head in an attempt to protect himself from the blows raining down on him. Afterwards, the youths just walked off, leaving Newlove's wife, Helen, and his three daughters - who witnessed the attack - to try to help him.He died in hospital two days later, having never regained consciousness.Ian Rushton, the chief prosecutor for the CPS in Cheshire, speaking outside the court, said: "This was a callous crime committed by young men. They kicked and punched Mr Newlove to death, leaving his three daughters without a devoted dad and his wife without a loving husband."Last night Newlove's widow, Helen, issued a statement, saying "the light has gone out of our lives" and her daughters were still suffering flashbacks."Parents should take responsibility for their children," she said, not let them walk the streets, "causing damage and intimidating other people by drinking and abusive language". She called on shopkeepers in particular to be more vigilant about youths buying alcohol.Helen Newlove's statement:"We were an ordinary working-class family. Garry was a caring, loving, funny and most of all a family man. We did everything together for 26 years. He adored his daughters Zoe, Danielle and Amy - always attended their school sports days and parents' evenings and we were always keen to encourage them to achieve their best."The light has gone out of our lives. ... My soulmate has gone and I just want to see and hear Garry. To have to turn off his life support machine because of this needless and senseless act, I find hard to comprehend."All Amy wanted was for her dad to open his eyes and so he could see that she was there. How do you tell your 13-year-old that he will never open his eyes? All Amy sees in her mind is the picture of her dad being beaten to death and lying on the ground lifeless."As far as I am concerned life should mean life. After all, the tariff for murder is mandatory, but why, as the justice system does not uphold this sentence?"Parents should take responsibility for their children. Garry and I have brought up three girls together to respect other people and to be home, not walking the streets causing damage and intimidating other people by drinking and abusive language."