Doreen Lawrence, the mother of murdered teenager Stephen, is due to speak next week at a conference that will put police corruption, spying and racism under the microscope.She is among a series of individuals who are to speak at the two-day conference in London.The peer is due to talk about the public inquiry that has been set up by home secretary Theresa May into undercover policing and the infiltration of political groups. May ordered the inquiry after an independent review found that undercover police had spied on Stephen Lawrence’s family. The conference will also examine how undercover police secretly gathered intelligence over two decades on 17 other families fighting the police to get justice.The intelligence covering high-profile campaigns was collected between the mid-1980s and 2005, and included grieving families whose relatives had been murdered or had died after contact with the police.Relatives of two families are also due to speak at the conference - Sukhdev Reel, whose 20-year-old son Ricky was found dead in a river after he was abused by racists, and Lee Lawrence, the son of Cherry Groce who was shot and paralysed by police in a bungled raid on her home. Also speaking is Janet Alder, the sister of ex-paratrooper Christopher who died on the floor of a police station, and who was allegedly placed under “improper surveillance” by police.On the bill is Rosa Curling, the lawyer representing Peter Francis, the former undercover officer who has blown the whistle on the activities of the police spies. He has revealed, among other things, how his superiors asked him to collect intelligence on black justice campaigns while he infiltrated anti-racist groups.Also speaking are Helen Steel, who was deceived into having a two-year relationship with undercover officer John Dines, and Harriet Wistrich, the lawyer representing a group of women who are suing police over relationships they had with undercover police.I am also due to describe how undercover police officers have infiltrated and disrupted political groups since 1968.Comedian and journalist Mark Thomas will explain how a campaigner he thought was a friend turned out to be a spy hired by arms giant BAE. The organisers say :”The conference takes as its starting point that there is a profound crisis in policing across the UK that requires us to share information and experiences, develop ideas and create new partnerships that will spur a momentum for genuine state accountability.”      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the speakers will be lawyer Imran Khan, best known for representing Doreen Lawrence in the fight for justice for her murdered son, Stephen Lawrence. Photograph: Richard SakerThe conference will be discussing a series of issues such as stop and search, and racial profiling. The full line-up of speakers - which can be found here - include professors Gus John and Ben Bowling, Courtney Griffiths QC, Lee Jasper, Stafford Scott and Suresh Grover. The conference is on Friday February 6 and Saturday February 7 - people can sign up for two days or just one. It will be held at Conway Hall in central London. Ironically it is a venue that has often been visited by undercover officers when they took part in political meetings to keep up the pretence that they were committed campaigners. Francis attended a conference of left-wing activists in the 1990s, mid-way through his undercover deployment. This photograph (here) taken by Special Branch shows him emerging from Conway Hall when police were carrying out surveillance of political activists attending a conference there. Another undercover officer has described spotting a colleague from his covert unit at the same meeting as he was, and congratulating him afterwards for being so convincing in his fake persona of an activist. The conference is organised by the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, Imran Khan and Partners solicitors, the Monitoring Group and Tottenham Rights, and sponsored by the Campaign Opposing Police Surveillance. 