Victory was better than defeat - but last night's majority of nine votes did not turn 42 days into a triumph for Gordon Brown. The government strong-armed its legislation through the Commons using every trick in the whips' book but the prime minister has been left in serious trouble and his survival remains uncertain.A month ago defeat looked likely - but Brown's position has become more perilous since then. The humiliation of winning on the back of Democratic Unionist votes, after failing to win round rebel backbenchers, will only add to his troubles. It might have even been better to lose outright, without the suspicion of grubby deals. Yesterday parliamentary critics claimed that the party's mood had hardened against Brown, made worse by his insistence on winning a vote almost no one thought needed to take place. This was a piece of political strategising gone wrong, intended to leave the Tories looking soft on terror. There was logic to this: the opposition were at odds with public opinion: a YouGov poll this week suggested 69% of voters backed 42 days. But the government has got no political benefit. Downing Street will want to use last night's victory to show the prime minister does not always back down. He threw himself into the battle - one rebel reporting five calls from the PM asking him to change his mind. But many were unpersuaded. Defeat would have left Brown reeling: a personal blow much more serious than Tony Blair's defeat on 90 days detention in 2005. He will now want to reassert his hold on office after three terrible months. Immediate crisis has been averted, giving him a chance to move the political story away from his own troubles - even if the cost inside his party was high.The respite would not last long if Ireland votes no to the European constitutional treaty today. That would trigger Eurosceptic calls to suspend parliamentary ratification here. But if Ireland's yes camp scrapes home, the prime minister will get a breathing space. It could last until parliament leaves for the summer at the end of July - although the government still faces a long public battle with the Lords over 42 days.With no other controversial votes due in parliament before the summer, pressure could grow on the Tories instead over their expenses at Westminster and in Brussels. Labour may lose its deposit in next week's Henley byelection, which would be an embarrassment. But it has happened before - in 1997, at the height of Tony Blair's popularity, Labour came third with only 944 votes in Winchester.The prime minister might hope to have reasserted some command over his party at Labour's annual conference. The crucial factor before then is likely to be the opinion polls. Labour's position has been so terrible that few people can imagine it getting worse. At 25% in the most recent Populus survey, and 26% in a weekend ICM poll, the party's rating is perilously close to the Liberal Democrats. If Labour fell to third place, the prime minister might face an immediate crisis. More likely is a slow drift upwards. Labour support rose slightly in three out of the last four summers in ICM polls. Even a small climb now would look like a recovery.But it would not put Labour ahead, as a general election gets closer. There is despair inside the party at Brown's chances of beating Cameron. Some MPs hope he could turn things round - building bridges with his critics and launching new policies. There may be a reshuffle soon. Others are fatalistic, thinking that nothing much can stop the Tory advance. A third group actively want to replace Brown, believing a new leader could not do worse.Are they prepared to act? There is certainly chatter about a contest, but there is no clear candidate and there seems to be no will in cabinet to force the prime minister from power. One critic yesterday put his chances of surviving at little more than 50%. But by winning 42 days, Brown has made it harder for his enemies to pounce.