If you are addicted to drugs and jailed, there is a fair chance you will be able to buy the drug of your choice inside. The prison service faces an almost impossible task in trying to make the penal estate narcotic free. The mix of desperate imprisoned addicts and massive profits for those supplying them, ensures drugs will get to the wings and landings.However, study another form of addiction and you see a very different picture. The vast majority of prisons are almost alcohol-free zones. I say almost: booze is usually available in open prisons, and a few inmates in closed jails carry on the practice of brewing hooch with varying degrees of success and a high capture rate by prison staff – the smell of the fermenting brew usually gives the game away. I have known alcoholic prisoners seize on metal polish and mix it with cordial to fuel their needs. But jails are mainly dry.An opportunity then, for the justice system to work on those whose drink habits have led them to jail, again and again, in many instances. But stand outside any local prison on a weekday morning and you will see many released prisoners, male and female, heading straight for the nearest off-licence, back on the path that led them inside. A trick is being missed somewhere.Eighteen months ago, I was invited to sit on the Alcohol and Crime Commission, set up to examine the relationship between alcohol and crime. Its findings have now been published.I always knew, from my time inside, that drink plays a large part in many crimes. But the full extent of the problem surprised me. According to a survey of 267 prisoners by the commission, 70% of inmates who responded said they had been drinking when they committed the crime that put them away. Just under half of the female respondents (46%) and 37% of male participants reported their drinking was a big problem.When it comes to treatment for prisoners, alcoholism is the poor relation of drug addiction. Although alcohol awareness and treatment programmes are in place, they are not given the same priority as treating drug addiction, and access to post-release treatment for alcoholics is patchy. A survey by the Inspectorate of Prisons in 2012 found 60% of those entering prison with an alcohol problem left custody with their addiction not addressed. In contrast, most ex-prisoners with drug addiction problems have specialist treatment and in some cases specialist accommodation available to help their rehabilitation.But tackling prisoners' drink problems would have a hugely beneficial impact on recidivism, reducing crime rates and easing the burden on our overcrowded prisons. In evidence to the commission, the chief constable of Northamptonshire police, Adrian Lee, said the impact of alcohol crime on police is "huge", and described the possibility of inmates leaving prison dry as a great window of opportunity "to catch them sober and offer the help and support they need".Support for alcoholic prisoners on release from jail does work. For a decade, the charity Addaction has run an alcohol resettlement scheme at Manchester prison and supports men from there and women from Styal prison before and after release. Results show a decrease both in alcohol consumption and reoffending. Funding underpins all such schemes, and in the current financial climate even the best of programmes, like these, are not ringfenced.The commission's report calls for alcohol treatment to form an essential part of rehabilitation and for the provision of specialist, post-release support, especially for those serving short sentences. But what's really needed is a forensic assessment of the true extent of alcohol-fuelled crime. In a society of inexpensive high-strength lagers and ciders, the "booze-fuelled revolving door of crime and prison" is estimated to cost the taxpayer around £21bn a year. That's a pretty steep bar tab. The government should take the cheaper and safer option of guiding released "dry" prisoners towards support, rather than the off-licence.