Parents are to be given places on neighbourhood panels that manage the release of paedophiles and other dangerous offenders from prison, the home secretary, David Blunkett, announced yesterday. The decision to give parents a voice in monitoring released child sex offenders came as the News of the World published photographs of four convicted paedophiles - the images released by Scotland Yard in an attempt to track them down. The government yesterday praised the newspaper as "public spirited". The deputy prime minister, John Prescott, said the paper was acting "more or less" like Crimewatch in publicising the details of four men whom the police want to trace. Mr Blunkett's announcement, in which he also confirmed his intention to introduce automatic life sentences for some serious sex offenders, will help to get the News of the World off the hook in its campaign for Sarah's Law - the demand for public disclosure of the whereabouts of all released paedophiles. But the home secretary made clear yesterday that while he was giving parents a voice in the "multi-agency public protection panels", which decide what arrangements should be made for the supervision of released paedophiles, he was not going as far as "Sarah's Law". "This is not about community members being able to give lists of offenders to neighbours and friends, but an important way of ensuring the local area feels they have a voice and a representative in the process who can help agree the best way to manage an offender's presence in the community," said Mr Blunkett in an article in the News of the World. "We already ensure people who have care of children - such as headteachers or scout leaders - can be warned by the police of sex offenders in their area where appropriate. We are also interested in tagging sex offenders released on supervision into the community, not least to ensure they stick to the agreed location," said the home secretary. The Metropolitan Police yesterday justified its unusual decision to release the photographs of the four convicted paedophiles, who have failed to register their names and addresses with the police within three days of their release from jail. The police named them as Raymond Perkins, David Baron, Zia Alowi and Tuan Quang Ho. "They are all thought to be in the London area although they could be elsewhere. I want to encourage the public to be vigilant, not vigilante," said Detective Chief Inspector Bob McLachlan of Scotland Yard's paedophile unit. The publication of the photographs has been carried out at the request of the police, unlike the News of the World's own "name and shame" campaign last summer which triggered nights of vigilante protests in Portsmouth and other areas. Rebekah Wade, editor of the News of the World, yesterday welcomed Mr Blunkett's action but said it did not go far enough. She said: "There are about 110,000 paedophiles in England and Wales and only 17,000 are on the register. That means there are 100,000 paedophiles who live in our community and we do not have the right to know who they are or where they are. The police find it very difficult to monitor them 24/7 and often most of them go unsupervised." Ms Wade said she might yet return to publishing details of paedophiles whose whereabouts were known. "We may come back to that," she said. Harry Fletcher of the National Association of Probation Officers said the newspaper was scaremongering. "[Ms Wade] is wrong to say there are 110,000 paedophiles in this country. That Home Office figure is an estimate of the number of all sex offenders, including cases of indecent exposure. Only about 10% cover those who have offended against children and the sex offenders' register includes 97% of those who have been released from prison. She has wildly overestimated the number of hardcore paedophiles." Mr Prescott said the paper's original campaign in which it had published the names and addresses of paedophiles had driven some underground and made it difficult to find them.