An unprecedented pledge by a serving government, to cut crime by a further 15% over the next three financial years partly through the recruitment of an extra 15,000 police community support officers, lies at the heart of the Home Office's settlement.Criminologists described the promise last night as "very brave" and said the only precedent was in Tony Blair's six-month campaign against street robbery which was announced when Downing Street already knew which way the trend was heading. Although the chancellor spoke in his statement of agreeing ringfenced funding for 20,000 community support officers and neighbourhood wardens, the Home Office made clear this meant recruiting an extra 15,000 officers in addition to the 5,000 already planned to come on stream by the end of this year. The announcement also implied that the record strength of 138,000 full police officers is unlikely to go much higher. But it means Labour will go into next year's general election on a pledge to increase the strength of the "police family" by 15,000 by 2008 in response to the Conservatives' promise of 22,000 extra officers by 2010. Mr Blunkett said last night that crime had fallen by 25% since 1997 when Labour came to power and the first phase of reforming the police service had been completed but there was more work to be done. The other details of the Home Office settlement to emerge last night showed the Treasury had been generous towards Mr Blunkett on policing, anti-terrorism, organised crime and the expansion of drug treatment programmes. The chancellor has finally agreed to fund the first stage of Mr Blunkett's national identity card scheme. But while the extra money needed to merge the prisons and probation services, fund an extra 3,000 prison places and expand the programme of community punishments is promised, no hard figures were forthcoming last night. The settlement included an immediate extra £50m for the counter-terrorism reserve which will partly be used to finance the doubling in size of the security services. Funding for anti-terrorism work across government is due to increase from £1.5bn this year to £2.1bn by 2007-08, which must make it one of the biggest growth industries in Whitehall. Money was also promised for the new Serious Organised Crime Agency, and for the police's national intelligence computer system in the wake of the Bichard inquiry into the Soham murders.But this extra money has been won by Mr Blunkett at a price. He has to deliver a 15% reduction in crime within three years and the target is bigger in higher crime areas. He has also reached a new public service agreement with the Treasury to bring 1.25m crimes in which "an offender is brought to justice" every year. This target has been difficult to meet and the current figure remains around the 1 million a-year mark. The transfer of charging offenders from the police to the Crown Prosecution Service is seen as a crucial tool in meeting this target. Overall, the Home Office's budget is due to rise from £12.7bn this year to £14.8bn in 2007-08: about average for the increase across Whitehall at 2.7% in real terms each year. The chancellor said with immigration and asylum spending at standstill, the rest of the Home Office budget would rise by 4% a year in real terms. The Treasury expects the Home Office to find at least £2.3bn in savings over the next three financial years, half of which it can spend on frontline activities. The majority, £450m a year for three years, is expected to come from the reduction in the cost of supporting asylum seekers as a result of the government meeting its target to halve the number of applications. The Home Office headquarters is to lose 2,700 jobs, of which 1,170 will be as a result of merging prison and probation services into the new National Offender Management Service and cuts in the immigration service headquarters' staff. A total of 2,200 Home Office jobs are to be transferred out of London and the south-east, with the bulk involving the relocation of prison and probation headquarters' staff. The Treasury has continued its emphasis on doubling the number of treatment places for hardcore drug abusers from 100,000 to 200,000 by 2008. The number currently stands at around the 145,000 mark. The Association of Police Authorities welcomed the extra community support officers, saying they had proved very popular with communities, but was concerned the decision to ringfence the money to fund them would eat into overall funding for policing. Lady Henig, the chairwoman of the association, said: "We await further details, but are concerned that ringfenced funding for police community support officers would eat into overall funding for policing. "Ringfenced funding limits the flexibility of police authorities and forces to allocate resources in the way that suits their communities best, including in selecting the right mix of police officers, police staff including chief superintendents, and other spending, such as technology."