The criminal justice system doesn't work. It's a mess. It's a waste of money. It's a badly managed attempt to implement policies which would not work even if they were well managed. It's been hijacked by politicians for their own populist ends. It doesn't catch many criminals, it doesn't dispense much justice and it's no kind of system at all.More or less, allowing for detail, that is what we uncovered in the biggest investigation of criminal justice ever mounted by a Fleet Street newspaper. Over more than two years of work, we found brilliant police officers, dedicated drugs workers, stressed-out probation officers, imaginative prison staff - and a system that consistently misdirected their efforts and, most important of all, failed to have any significant impact on the behaviour of criminals. You might think that, confronted with that kind of criticism from a national newspaper, the politicians responsible for the system would want to reply, at least to defend themselves, at best to prove we are wrong. That is not what happened. When the first stories appeared in the paper, in April 2003, we went to the Home Office to offer them space for the home secretary, then David Blunkett, or one of his ministers to reply. Since these stories had torn the heart out of government strategy on drugs, we were sure they would take up the offer. They didn't. And when I asked a well-placed official for the reason, she replied with a single world: "Shame." When the series finished in June this year, we renewed the offer. I asked to see the home secretary, now Charles Clarke, to give him a chance to respond to the dozen key points in the series. He declined. He was sorry. His diary was just too full, he said. So, we went to the big hitters - the people who sit at the head of the key agencies - and we gave each of them a short list of specific conclusions and invited them to reply. To their great credit, four of them made the effort to do so, and we publish their responses below. The head of the association of chief police officers, Chris Fox, spent five weeks saying that he would respond. But he never did. He was sorry. His diary was just too full, he said. For years, public debate about our law and order has been been a fight between the forces of the establishment asking for more power and the voices of the left defending civil rights. That is a vital argument. This series tried to open up a new front in the debate by relaying the voices of those who work within the system and who say there is an even more important point - that the system is fundamentally ineffective, that giving it more power simply pushes it further away from its objectives. The question today is whether those who run the system have an answer to those voices. Lord chief justice Lord Woolf The points we put to him: · The system is bringing justice in only 3% of offences committed. · Punishment is not changing the behaviour of repeat offenders. · The courts are still not equipped with powers to attack the problems which generate crime, with the result that they continue to send too many defendants to custody. · Courts continue to experience delays - 24% of prisoners are not delivered to court on time; 52% of civilian witnesses come to court and do not give evidence; 64% of prosecution witnesses come to court and do not give evidence. Files of evidence provided by police to prosecutors are on time and up to quality in only 43% of cases; and the preparation by prosecutors is effective in only 60% of cases. · Forty-four per cent of fines are unpaid; up to 40% of community punishments are unserved. His response ... Nick Davies's report has highlighted many of the issues which the judiciary and the courts seek to balance on a daily basis. It is a delicate balancing act of ensuring that justice is done and that crime is punished, but that in doing so the seeds are not sown for reoffending and further crimes being committed in the community. I have spoken out many times on my concerns over prison overcrowding, and while I firmly believe that for serious and violent crimes there is no alternative to a custodial sentence, I also believe passionately on taking steps to turn people away from crime. We do not want a system that shuts people outside society, once they have left the prison gates. There are a number of initiatives that give me hope that things are changing and improving for the better: The National Offender Management scheme (Noms) has brought prison and probation services together, which should help with the coordination and planning of services (although I recognise the fears that Nick Davies expressed in his report of June 23 2005); The pilots for restorative justice projects (where offenders take responsibility for their crimes and try to make amends to victims); Government measures to dramatically improve fine enforcement, so that fines become a viable sentencing tool and deterrent - and that where fines go unpaid some other sanction (like community work) is applied. I believe that in the future the use of imprisonment should be focused primarily on four situations: Where imprisonment is necessary because the offender is sufficiently dangerous to make imprisonment essential for the protection of the public. Where the crime is so serious that it can only be marked by a significant prison sentence. Where what is needed (for example, in the case of white collar crime) is to mark the serious nature of the criminal conduct by a very short period of imprisonment in conjunction with other punishments. (This is often referred to as a "clang of the prison door" sentence.) Finally, there is the situation where the crime itself does not make imprisonment necessary but it becomes necessary because an offender will not comply with other sentences. Having said that, one major challenge for all of us is to convince the public that non-custodial sentences do provide a satisfactory punishment to offenders, and that they can play a key role in diverting offenders from returning to the pathways of crime. We need wider understanding and acceptance that the principles of sentencing are not just founded on punishing offenders (although it is one of the pillars), but about reducing crime, reforming and rehabilitating offenders and making them make reparation to the victims of their crime. Another aim of sentencing is protecting the public - their person, property and the sort of society they live in. That aim is not exclusively met by locking people up in prison. Reoffending is costly to our societies in so many ways - the human and emotional cost, but also the figures make for depressing reading. It is estimated that reoffending by ex-prisoners costs £11bn per year, and around 58% of prisoners are reconvicted within two years of their being released. All of us working within the system must aim to do much better than that. Nick Davies's report also focused on vulnerable offenders, and I see great value in looking at the specific needs and problems of particular groups. The Youth Justice Board has shown what progress can be made by taking a coordinated agency approach to a problem - such as helping young people with drug or alcohol problems for up to six months after their sentence has ended. It makes sense to turn our attention to women offenders (whose numbers have increased, especially on drug-related crimes) and those with mental health problems. We need to ask whether prison is the best setting to tackle effectively the needs of the substantial numbers of prisoners with mental health problems. The problems facing the criminal justice system should not be underestimated, but nor should the commitment of those working in it to address them. Chief executive of the National Offender Management Service, Martin Narey The points we put to him: · The probation service is in a state of chaos · The concept of Noms continues to rely on fines, community penalties and imprisonment despite the evidence that these fail to control crime levels. · Noms is set to be a cheaper way of remaining ineffective. · The Home Office has tried to manage the change to Noms too quickly and without the necessary expertise, thus losing the support of private security companies and staff in both services. His response ... Contrary to some of the anecdotes in Nick Davies's piece, the bringing together of prison and probation under the Noms umbrella has already led to some significant successes. First of all, the suggestion that probation is in chaos is simply untrue. Since probation and prison services have been managed together (since early 2003), rather than in single silos, there have been three key improvements to probation performance. First, reporting to courts by probation, which was close to collapse has radically improved (although further improvement in London is still needed). Right now, probation performance in getting reports to court, when the court asks for them, is at its highest ever. Secondly, probation has made a significant breakthrough in making offenders more employable by improving their basic skills. Despite this being a probation priority since 2001, performance has been disappointing with many chiefs, and a previous director general of probation, believing that offenders under community supervision were simply not susceptible to education. So in 2002-03, the 200,000 or so offenders supervised in the community obtained only 800 qualifications. Since then, learning from the success of prisons in this respect, and in an energetic partnership with DfES [Department for Education and Skills], there has been a transformation with, last year, 800 qualifications being replaced by 8,000. Thirdly, and more importantly the enforcement of community penalties has, at last, been gripped. The caricature of community penalties, inadequately supervised and with little or no sanction against an offender when he ignored the conditions of his sentence was, until recently, uncomfortably close to reality. In the last two years, the proportion of community sentences properly enforced (that is by offenders being returned to the court for a second failure to do as instructed) has improved by about a third and for the first time ever the 90% government target on enforcement has been met. Now, when an offender refuses to accept the chance offered by a community punishment they can expect and do go to jail. Not surprisingly, and as a consequence, the proportion of offenders complying with their community penalty is beginning to rise. All this is central to the sentencing strategy behind Noms, which is to make community punishment genuinely demanding and rigorously enforced so as to win back the confidence of the courts. There has been some welcome progress with a prison population about 7,000 lower today than predicted as recently as 2003. Fewer people are being sent to prison for short, inevitably ineffective sentences, and instead are subject to genuinely demanding community alternatives such as the drug testing and treatment order which, independent research verifies, reduces offending by 70% every week an offender remains on the order. Noms is difficult, perhaps one of the biggest change programmes that government has taken on. And staff are understandably threatened by the prospect of contestability where they will have to demonstrate that they can be as effective as the private or voluntary sector in reducing reoffending. But those anxieties should not hide the exciting prospect of much more effective management of offenders, particularly between custody and the community, underpinned by a dramatic increase in the influence of Probation staff as Offender Managers. As Patricia Scotland put it recently, after years of being marginalised in the criminal justice system, probation officers, the Cinderella of the system, are at last being invited to the ball. Chief executive of the National Treatment Agency for Substance Misuse, Paul Hayes The points we put to him: · The prohibition of drugs increases the health risks for users and increases the crime risks for communities · Current treatment programmes are a) scarce and badly managed, and b) misguided in so far as they promote abstinence rather than maintenance · The promised increase in the prescription of diamorphine has failed to materialise · There is no evidence of a reduction in demand for drugs. The British Crime Survey reports "a significant increase" in use of Class A drugs since the government introduced its strategy in 1998.His response ... In 2002, the Audit Commission published Changing Habits - a report into the quality and availability of drug treatment. The report concluded that: drug treatment had been chronically under-funded; effective treatment was being denied to individuals because of lengthy waits; treatment was too often delivered to match the philosophy of service providers, rather than the needs of users and the evidence base; and services operated in isolation rather than as part of a system of care. In 2004, the Audit Commission revisited this issue and concluded that: "There has been impressive progress since 2002 ... Local commitment, backed by national strategies, programmes and funding is having an impact ... The capacity of local drug treatment services has grown ... Local agencies are working more effectively in partnership and services are more integrated ... Waiting times are down and 20% more users are starting treatment." (Audit Commission, Drug misuse 2004) These improvements have continued. Drawing on the government's dramatic increases in funding for treatment since 2001 and the hard work of commissioners and providers of treatment, average waiting times are down from nine weeks to two-and-a-half weeks. Provisional figures for 2004-05 published last month, suggest that around 80% more drug users were in treatment than in 1998. The workforce delivering treatment has grown by 50% since 2002, and the NTA expects each of the 149 local partnerships responsible for commissioning and delivering treatment to establish a planned, coordinated treatment system providing access to each of the main types of drug treatment - including abstinence and maintenance programmes. At the same time as acknowledging real progress, the Audit Commission also highlighted the need to improve the quality of treatment and integration into wider systems of social support such as housing, employment, education and medical health systems. The NTA also recognises these needs and has recently launched a treatment effectiveness strategy with strong support from the treatment field, service users and carers. The strategy aims to improve the outcomes from treatment, at the same time as sustaining recent improvements in access and availability. Well-managed, evidence-based drug treatment is effective. It delivers improvements to individuals' health and social functioning, lowers public health risks by restricting the spread of blood-borne viruses, and increases community safety by reducing reoffending. While effectiveness is improving, too many services are not delivering quality treatment. The most effective services are seven times better than the worst performers. If drug treatment is to meet the needs of service users and provide good value to the rest of the community, this will have to change and the worst performing services brought up to the standard of the best. Improving public services will always be work in progress because we will never achieve services that entirely match the rising aspirations of the community. Drug treatment services in this county have, however, demonstrably improved since 2001. This is what service users tell me, and is confirmed by the Audit Commission. The NTA, service users, their carers and the wider community also recognise that much remains to be done to: consolidate these improvements; make sure that they are consistent across the country; and focus on the effectiveness of treatment to ensure that service users and their communities are not short-changed. Director general of the Prison Service, Phil Wheatley The points we put to him · If we diverted to treatment all those prisoners who are mentally disordered and/or addicted to alcohol or drugs, 90% of inmates would no longer be held in jail. · Despite the creation of Inreach teams to treat mentally disordered prisoners, the Mental Health Commission last year warned: "The prison 'community' cannot offer any real equivalent to the support and care available outside prison." · Transfer of the most seriously mentally ill to hospitals remains unacceptably slow with an estimated shortfall of 3,700 secure hospital beds. · Mere containment is not changing the behaviour of persistent offenders, but the Prison Service's efforts to improve rehabilitation are obstructed by shortage of funds and mismanagement from other government services. His response ... Why should all prisoners suffering from drug or alcohol dependency be diverted away from prison? Our first priority is to protect the public and the implication that drug or alcohol abuse is such a mitigating factor as to preclude a prison sentence doesn't stand up to scrutiny. Further, robust drug treatment is available in prisons - often, prison represents the first opportunity for offenders to have their drugs misuse problems addressed in a coherent, structured way. The principle underlying mental health services in prisons is that they should be treated, as far as possible, as they are in the community. Prisoners who would be treated at home by community mental health teams should be treated on the wings. Those needing more specialist care should be able to receive it in the prison health care centre, and there should be effective mechanisms to transfer those requiring inpatient treatment to hospital. The NHS Plan (2000) stated that at any one time there are around 5,000 prisoners with a severe mental illness, but not all of these prisoners will be acutely ill at the same time and not everyone in the community who has a severe mental illness is treated in hospital. In 2003, (the last year for which statistics have been published) 721 prisoners were transferred (a rise of 12% from 2002), the great majority for treatment for mental illness. The Prison Service, Prison Health, the National Institute for Mental Health in England (Nihme), and the commissioners and providers of NHS hospital services are working collaboratively on a two-year project to establish a national waiting time limit for transfers between custodial settings and hospitals. As your series of articles has demonstrated, the Prison Service has been successful in obtaining a greater concentration by prison staff on the work of reducing reoffending and assisting prisoners to resettle successfully. This work is difficult. Prisoners often have multiple problems and have led chaotic lives that have damaged their life chances. In context, much of the work takes place in overcrowded and busy prisons. The pressure is greatest in local prisons where many of the most needy short-term prisoners arrive and complete their sentences. In spite of these difficulties, the Prison Service is making progress. We have been more successful at getting sentenced prisoners into employment training or an education outcome within one month of release (37,753 in 2004-05); we have increased the emphasis on ensuring that prisoners have accommodation to go to and do not leave establishments homeless and we've sharply increased the number of drug treatment programmes with 7,119 entrants to drug treatment programmes during the course of the year. Obviously, with more resources, it would be possible to do more, but we are using the resources we've got more effectively and there is real buy-in from prison staff to this agenda which helps to protect society by reducing the risk of crime. In the north-west, the pilot Pathfinder project is taking forward the concept of continuity in sentencing after release with the expectation of a nationwide roll-out. Much of this work is being done cooperatively with other government departments and other agencies in the community. The resettlement of offenders is often supported by really good inter-agency working at a local level. Crime and disorder partnerships, in which all the main players work cooperatively under the leadership of the chief executive of the local authority, have been particularly helpful at identifying local solutions and ensuring that local services are all deployed cooperatively. We have encouraged governors to make links into this local system. The Department for Education, the Department of Health and the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister have all helped to support this work and this year has seen continued improvements in the follow-up available in the community for those with drug problems being released drug-free from prison. And continuity in the sentencing programme after release is being trialled in the north-west where the pilot Pathfinder project is. President of the Association of Chief Police Officers, Chris Fox The points we put to him: · The Home Office is intervening to an unprecedented extent in the operational independence of chief constables. · The policy of putting more "bobbies on the beat" is a peculiarly wasteful and ineffective use of police manpower. Sir David Phillips, former head of Acpo, described the policy as coming from "an Enid Blyton world". Home Office research, Reducing Reoffending concluded that police patrols "do not have a marked effect on crime levels". · The requirement to increase the recording of detections is wasting manpower and will encourage false recording. Acpo paper: "It is suggested that increasing detections will reduce crime. This intuitive appeal is not supported by the evidence." Home Office research, Reducing Reoffending, concluded that laying more charges against offenders "does not have any noticeable effect". · There is no evidence that the system is reducing the supply of illicit drugs; if the system did succeed in reducing the supply, it would increase the blackmarket price of these drugs and stimulate property crime. Mr Fox did not respond. Substance abuse 'While effectiveness is improving, too many services are not delivering quality treatment' Prison system 'The work is difficult. Much of it takes place in overcrowded and busy prisons' Police service We put several points to Acpo's president, Chris Fox. He did not respond