A child yesterday told an Old Bailey jury how a woman laughed while beating her and accused her of being a witch.The child, an orphaned refugee from Angola, said Sita Kisanga, whom she called aunt, had abused her repeatedly, hitting her with a shoe, cutting her with a knife, waking her during the night, and starving her. At one stage, the child alleges, Ms Kisanga and a man and woman surrounded her, beat her, and told her she was going to die. The jury yesterday began to watch five hours of videotaped police interviews with the child, known as B. She told police that aged eight she had been abused in an east London house, and at one stage that Ms Kisanga and another woman had planned to murder her by stuffing her in a laundry bag and then throwing her in a river. Ms Kisanga, 35, of Hackney, east London, and a 39-year-old woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, and who the crown says is the child's real aunt, deny conspiracy to murder and child cruelty charges. Ms Kisanga's brother, Sebastian Pinto, 33, and his girlfriend, Kiwonde Kiese, 21, both of north London, deny aiding and abetting child cruelty between August 2002 and November 2003. During the police interview child B, at times clutching a teddy bear, alleged Ms Kisanga had threatened her to keep silent about the abuse: "If I tell anybody she hits me, she'll take a knife and stab me." She also told how she had had chilli peppers rubbed into her eyes, was struck in the eye, and one time was struck so hard she hit her head against a wall. Child B claimed that after one assault Ms Kisanga did not seek medical attention for the injuries inflicted for two days, leaving the girl to go to bed in pain. "My eyes were just swelling up. I couldn't lie down because it was very sore, throbbing very hard," she said. When asked by a detective what she wanted to happen to Ms Kisanga she said: "Because I go to church I forgive her. They tell us at the church if somebody does bad things forgive them, so that's what I do." The jury heard that Ms Kisanga had accused the child, now aged 10, of being a witch: "My auntie said that my mum and me have got witchcraft. "I said if we had been involved in witchcraft we would have killed someone. "That is why she wakes us up every night and tells us we are involved in witchcraft. "She laughs when she hits me. She says things to me like, 'Oh, you have got it now."' In the second video, the girl said Ms Kisanga had cornered her in the kitchen and told her "today you die". The girl said: "She told me to take my jumper and my vest off. "She pulled a little knife and she did little marks. I was bleeding." The girl told the court that Ms Kisanga and Mr Pinto had encircled her: "One kicked me, one slapped me and one pushed me. I asked myself what have I done?" She said they had been shouting at her when neighbours knocked on the door complaining about the noise. The trial continues.