Prison staff admit jails are 'out of their control' because of fund shortages and bad management by Whitehall, according to an extensive government survey of prison workers. The six-month analysis of staff attitudes also revealed that a fifth did not have a 'clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities' and did not believe that 'treating prisoners with decency improves the working atmosphere'. Campaigners called the results 'dire' and said the situation is being worsened by management complacency. In a foreword, Gareth Hadley, director of personnel at the Prison Service, said he was pleased that 80 per cent of staff had 'a clear understanding of their roles and responsibilities' and that nearly two-thirds had taken time to participate in the survey. The crisis in morale and training will heighten concerns that the Home Office's new tough approach on staff will exacerbate conditions at jails that critics already call 'Victorian'. The first sign of that policy change emerged earlier this year when a prison union leader at the Feltham institution for young offenders was sacked. Reform advocates said the survey showed that staff have difficulties with the new emphasis on rehabilitation. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: 'This is very worrying. This has to be a service which sees itself as caring and its prisoners as customers. They have to be given a good service, as if they are customers that the staff do not want to see again. A lot of staff are finding this a difficult issue and do not want to treat people with decency.' Crook added that the service fails to realise how long it takes to implement changes and blamed poor conditions: 'The adult prison system is chronically lagging behind the child system. When a child turns 18, they have to go back to the nineteenth-century conditions when they move to an adult jail.' Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat Shadow Home Secretary, saw a 'total lack of confidence in the Prison Service by its staff'.