March 17, 2007Pakistan crash out of the Cricket World Cup after losing to Ireland, one of the less-favoured teams. The team coach, Bob Woolmer, retires to his hotel between 8pm and 9pm, orders room service and sends an email from his laptop.March 18Woolmer is found naked and unconscious in his hotel room shortly before 11am. He is pronounced dead in hospital shortly after midday.March 19His family says Woolmer may have suffered a stress-related heart attack.March 20The first post-mortem examination is inconclusive.March 21Jamaican police say the death is being treated as suspicious.March 22His family rejects the theory he committed suicide. Police confirm they are now treating the case as a murder investigation after a second post-mortem examination concludes he was strangled.March 23Detectives say they are looking at the possibility Woolmer was killed as part of a match-fixing plot. Pakistani cricketers provide DNA samples.March 27The Pakistan team returns home.March 28An unnamed official of the Pakistan Cricket Board suggests Woolmer may not have been murdered.April 3A team from the Metropolitan police arrive in Jamaica to assist the investigation.April 14The Met officers return to Britain. With no arrests or obvious leads, the press reports that the trail has gone cold. Toxicology tests are also sent to London.April 19The Sun newspaper reports Woolmer was poisoned using the drug aconite.April 23Local authorities release Woolmer's body.April 30Panorama reports Woolmer was poisoned before being strangled.May 8A Pakistani detective assisting with the case says police are yet to prove that Woolmer was murdered. Jamaican police insist the autopsy concluded that he was murdered.May 13News of the World claims that the officer leading the case is flying to see Woolmer's widow in South Africa to reveal he died of natural causes, pending further toxicology reports.May 14Jamaican police reiterate the case is still being treated as murder.June 2Scotland Yard tells Jamaican police that Woolmer was not murdered, the BBC reports. The conclusion follows analysis by a Home Office pathologist who flew to Jamaica to investigate the death.June 10A third and final report into the death, by a South African strangulation expert, confirms Woolmer was not murdered, the Observer reports. Instead Jamaican police now believe he died of natural causes after all.