This week's headlines reporting the death of Anthony Walker were a shock to the system. That a teenage boy could be axed to death by racists just because he chose to date a girl of a different race seemed to me like news from a bygone era. How far have we progressed from the days of slavery if a black man can still be lynched simply for being seen in the company of a white woman?I probably found the news of Anthony Walker's murder particularly disturbing because, more by circumstance than choice, most of the people I've been out with have been white. Growing up in London my circle of friends resembled a Benetton ad. Inter-racial dating was never an issue for us. When people have asked me what it's like to date 'outside of my race' it always struck me as a glaring non-issue. It's not as if I date Klingons, for Pete's sake. In an age when inter-racial couples are regularly seen in television soap operas and appear in ads selling everything from sofas to cereals I had forgotten that mixed relationships could even be a subject of debate in Britain. When the public was subjected to images of Anthony and Makosi getting jiggy in the Big Brother pool the problem wasn't that they were of different colours, it was more that it was stomach-churningly icky viewing. So the events in the Liverpool suburb of Huyton were a harsh slap in the face. I must consider the possibility that the relaxed attitude towards my boyfriend and I in the capital may not be mirrored in other parts of the country. That is not to say that London is a Utopia. There are certain areas of East London that I would never step foot in (there's no point in asking for trouble in areas which have a history of racial violence) and I avoid trips to the south London suburb of Brixton with my boyfriend as much as possible. I can't help feeling pissed off when, as happens all too often, black men mutter comments including the word 'Bounty' (meaning a black person who is white on the inside) as I saunter down Coldharbour Lane with my guy. However, we no longer live in the dark days of the Fifties and Sixties when lack of familiarity with different cultures and races and ignorance about the lives and backgrounds of newly arrived immigrants, bred contempt. For the most part, black and white have been living side by side for half a century now. Young adults of my generation (I was born in 1980) who have been brought up in metropolitan areas have been mingling with people from a rainbow of backgrounds since nursery school. By the time we were of university age, integrating with people from different ethnicities should have become second nature. Race relations in Britain are advanced compared to the situation in other European countries. For the past eight years I've been a regular visitor to Italy, usually visiting the country four or five times a year. Last year I moved to Milan, a city which, by Italian standards, is both multicultural and progressive. Yet people would still stare in disbelief at an inter-racial couple walking down the street. A number of my black male friends dating Italian girls received both verbal and physical abuse. Once on holiday in Lake Garda, with an Italian guy, we passed a group of school kids. One boy - he couldn't have been more than 13 - pointed his finger at me like a gun and made the noise of machine gun fire. His teacher did nothing to stop him and my boyfriend and I just stared at each other in open-mouthed astonishment. In Italy, I'd put their behaviour down to ignorance rather than racism. America, though, is a different kettle of fish. I've never understood why we black British look to America as the land of openness and tolerance. From my experiences and conversations with the American side of my family it seems to me to be one of the most segregated places in the world. A private university in South Carolina has only just - last month - reluctantly abandoned its policy that students had to have written parental permission to have an inter-racial relationship. For years the president of Bob Jones University had insisted that 'genetic blending', as he referred to relationships between people from different races, went against the Biblical order and was not to be encouraged. I was surprised to see that even in the debauched city of Miami Beach, while blacks, whites and Hispanics work comfortably alongside each other by day, at night it was a different matter. Clubs, bars and even the beach were divided unofficially along racial lines. My current boyfriend is a patriotic Frenchman born in Paris. However, he agrees with me that the ease with which an inter-racial couple can exist in London reflects well on the progressive nature of our society. We must hope that we do not lose this in the response to the racial tensions awakened by the events in Huyton and the prejudices brought to the foreground by the London bombings, and that people do not withdraw into their own communities. Living segregated lives cannot lead Britain to unity. Embracing our country's diversity offers the securest defence against racists, fundamentalists and bigots. I'm endlessly thankful that I've grown up within a society where I and my friends have been able to choose to mix freely with people from different cultures and I fervently hope that recent events don't stop the next generation from feeling equally free.