The way in which the round-up of foreign prisoners who had been released without being considered for deportation was carried out has been sharply criticised by Anne Owers, chief inspector of prisons.She says that some of those who were detained and told they would be deported were British, while others have lived for decades in this country and have not committed offences serious enough to qualify for expulsion. They are believed to be among the 1,300 foreign nationals who are now being held in prisons and immigration removal centres across England and Wales long after the end of their sentences whilst complex legal deportation procedures are gone through.Probation sources estimate that a majority of those being held want to go home but are now being imprisoned for periods of up to seven months beyond their official release dates, exacerbating the crisis in prison accommodation.Criminal justice sources say that one Irish prisoner has "gone on the blanket" - refused to wear prison clothes - in protest at the failure to send him home to the Republic. Other Irish ex-offenders who have been detained after decades of living in Britain but without a UK passport now face being sent back to a country where they have only tenuous connections. Rules of the removal scheme mean that Commonwealth and Irish citizens have to have first come to Britain before 1973 and to have been resident for the past five years. At the same time, a wave of "robust" legal challenges - at least 18 - are being prepared by a significant minority who are resisting removal and trying to claim compensation for false imprisonment.This week John Reid, the home secretary, acknowledged the problem which followed the crisis that cost the job of his predecessor, Charles Clarke, last April: "We have foreign national prisoners, some 1,300 who have finished their sentences, whom I want to deport, but who are occupying places. I make no apology for keeping them in prison until deportation."But Ms Owers criticised the way the operation has been carried out, saying that some of those facing deportation had been rearrested while living law-abidingly in the community after release. "This has placed further pressure on an overcrowded prison estate. Notices of intention to deport were issued without any consideration of individual circumstances: in some cases to people who were British, and in others to people not liable to deportation, or who had decades of residence in the UK and had not committed serious offences," said Ms Owers."Continuing contact with immigration authorities remained a major problem in many prisons during the early autumn. The human cost ... was considerable, and there is evidence of a rise in self-harm."Harry Fletcher of Napo, the probation officers' union, said he believed most of the 1,300 wanted to go home. "The waiting time beyond their release date is getting longer and it can now be as much as seven months."A Home Office spokeswoman said everything possible was being done to ensure removals went ahead quickly. New legislation would speed up the process by removing the need for consent from prisoners.Case historiesSaleem Ahmed Sethi, 63, of Pakistani origin, has lived in Britain since he was 10. In 1997 he was convicted of rape and assault and sentenced to eight years. He was released in 2002. In May, police told him he was to be deported. He was detained four months. He is seeking compensation.Ernest Leal, an arts promoter, was 13 when he came to Britain as a Chilean refugee in 1977. Several years ago, he was in a brawl and sentenced to 30 months, serving 18. In May, he was arrested and told he would be deported. He won an appeal.Sakchai Makao, 23, born in Thailand, has lived in Shetland for 13 years. He served eight months for arson in 2004. He was held in a dawn raid last June and taken to prison. He won an appeal against deportation.