There is a story about John Reid, which may just be true, which recounts one of his many walk-on roles in ministerial reshuffles. Strolling into Downing Street and looking into the prime minister's eyes, he is said to have realised the fate that awaited him. "Oh fuck no," he is said to have blurted out. "Not health!"Today Mr Reid knows what he should have said. "Phew, so not the Home Office then, Tony?"On Tuesday, little more than two weeks after assuming responsibility (it is far too early for talk of taking charge) at the most important and most dysfunctional domestic department, Mr Reid insisted on addressing the Commons' home affairs committee. Already, he told MPs, "It feels like two years."Yesterday he was forced to apologise to those MPs after figures he gave on the foreign prisoners debacle proved wrong. He had said four murderers and 23 other serious offenders were detained in prison, when one murderer, a rapist and a child sex offender had actually been freed on bail.But there had been no mistaking his view of the immigration service's catastrophic failings. "It's inadequate in terms of its information technology, leadership, management, systems and process," he said. It was "not fit for the purpose: averse to a culture of personal responsibility".Dumping from a great heightListening to him, several closely connected questions must have sprung to the MPs' minds. Were they listening to a man who could transform the immigration service into an organisation capable of coping with the population shifts of the early 21st century? Why was he so obviously dumping from a great height on three previous Labour home secretaries? And, knowing the British electorate's weakness for strong leaders, does he see himself as a prime minister in the making?The third question may offer an answer to the second. But while few would give Mr Reid much chance of polling many votes in a leadership contest against Gordon Brown, they know his chances would be enhanced if he can prove he has the political and managerial prowess needed to pummel the immigration service into shape.Born into a working-class family in Lanarkshire, Mr Reid attended a Catholic secondary that has produced two other MPs. "We don't quite beat Eton but we are ahead of Fettes," he is fond of saying, taking a gentle swipe not only at the leader of the opposition but at his boss. He left school to become a teenage insurance clerk, but returned to education in his 20s, studying with the Open University and taking an MA in history and a PhD in economic history at Stirling, before being recruited as a Labour party researcher. He has two grown-up sons and, after his first wife Catherine died of a heart attack in 1998, married Carine Adler, a Brazilian film director.At 59, his zig-zag route to high office has been busy: over the past nine years he has been through more ministerial posts than many people have been through toothbrushes, with the result that some have carped that he has never been in any job long enough to fail.On the other hand, his supporters say, he has been armed forces minister, transport minister, Scottish secretary, Northern Ireland secretary, health secretary and defence secretary because he was always seen as the best person for each job. He was also party chairman for 162 days, and leader of the House of Commons for 69. Admirers point to another portfolio: as minister for the Today programme he is one of the few in government able to go toe-to-toe with a Humphrys or a Paxman and have a fighting chance of going the distance.While Downing Street has found inventive use for Mr Reid's combative skills, he has also shown himself to be more than capable of reinventing himself. He is a former Communist party member who is now an ardent democratic socialist; a man who railed against nuclear weapons in the 80s, but who so relished his time at the MoD, rubbing shoulders with squaddies and working with the brass, that he was seen as something of a military groupie. As one of Neil Kinnock's advisers during the opposition years he had been quicker than many to see the need to adapt and change. By 1997 some were describing him as more Blairite than Tony.Mr Reid is also an ex-smoker and a reformed alcoholic, a man who is now big on self-discipline. When sniffer dogs found a small stash of cannabis resin at his Lanarkshire house last month, nobody doubted his assurance that he knew nothing about it.Political hoodieHis reputation as an outspoken and hard-hitting political hoodie (the Daily Mail once denounced him as "Tony Blair's unofficial Minister for Malevolence") belies a record in government that shows him to be a conciliator. One of his first acts as health secretary in 2003 was to reopen salary negotiations with hospital consultants after his predecessor, Alan Milburn, slammed the door on them. When pressing ahead with market-style reforms, he avoided antagonising the left by keeping away from the word "competition". While his relationship with Mr Brown has been far from warm since he acted as Mr Blair's Scottish campaign manager during the 1994 leadership election, he avoided repeating Mr Milburn's mistake of rowing with the chancellor about the NHS.At last week's Police Federation conference in Bournemouth he gave a self-deprecatory speech about being the Home Office Minister for Now to woo rank-and-file officers.A few traces of weakness may just about be detected. Since his days as armed forces minister he has appeared to enjoy the trappings of motorcycle escorts and he is known to enjoy his high media profile. (He would have been delighted by yesterday's Daily Mirror headline, which hailed him as "The Enforcer" after he told the newspaper he would "fucking well work 18 hours a day" to knock his new department into shape.) At Westminster, many still recall the warm hospitality he received from Bosnian Serb leaders in the early 90s.But in Downing Streethe is seen not just as the best man for the Home Office, but the only man. The stakes could not be much higher: failure would damage not only Mr Reid, but Labour's prospects at the next general election.Success may make Mr Reid indispensable to Prime Minister Brown, regardless of whether or not the two men compete for the party leadership.We may have a few more years of the safest pair of fists in British politics.