Tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime. But that was only the half of it. Tough on criminals - there's the full story. Lock them up (71,000 of them). Make sure the good-for-nothings are so far from home and family that regular visits are near impossible or, at least, financially crippling. Cut the training and education budget, so that their spell inside will really brand them second-class citizens incapable of holding any job apart from sweeping streets or washing cars. Don't make concessions to the mothers among them, or financial provisions for the homeowners who lose their home while inside.Mete out this kind of treatment to the average healthy Anglo-Saxon, and you'll find they develop a bit of an attitude problem; but about half of prisoners have the reading skills of an 11-year-old, and more than 70 per cent suffer from at least two mental disorders: when these people come out after a spell inside, is it any wonder that, in two out of three cases, they are re-convicted of another crime within two years? (That rate of re-offending soars, for young men aged 18 to 20, to seven out of 10.)This is a primitive, short-sighted prisons policy, as Cherie Booth warned in Inside Time, the newspaper for prisoners, giving a foretaste of the inaugural Frank Longford lecture she will deliver on Wednesday. Today's prisoners will one day sit next to you on the Tube, or fix your car. If their time inside has offered them nothing but hardship and humiliation, how will they view you? Given the certainty that prisoners will be recycled in our society, Cherie Booth's warning should be heeded. But in Britain's culture of retribution, her lecture is sure to give rise to the same cries of horror that erupted when she commented on suicide bombers. That we should strip prisoners of hope and yet condemn in outrage their acts of despair - from riots when they're inside to re-offending once they're out - seems only natural to a public hooked on the blame game. They're guilty, aren't they? Let them rot in hell. They've been tried and convicted: we've done our duty by them. The analogy between suicide bombers and prisoners goes beyond Cherie Booth's commentary on both: exclude and victimise someone for long enough, and given half a chance, they may blow up your world - or at least mug you, beat you or burgle your home. Conditions in prisons do generate some interest. Bloodcurdling tales of gang rapes, incidents of suicide and self-harm, racist abuse from prison guards make the news and prompt calls for reform. No-one would countenance a Midnight Express-style brutality to rule in Wormwood Scrubs, say, or Aylesbury. Yet if no-one wants inhumane punishment to blot Britain's record for a civilised criminal justice system, no one seems to worry about the prospects of prisoners who, blinking and uncertain, re-emerge into the outside world. This indifference to the prisoner's future is shown in our failure to invest in programmes or schemes that can enable inmates to turn their lives around. A few work apprenticeship schemes exist as Cherie Booth pointed out, but our failure to reproduce such schemes throughout the prison system, or to protest the repeated budget cuts that have shrunk education programmes behind bars, have reduced rehabilitation to an empty word, and turned every prison sentence into the first step in a campaign of retribution that will continue with your loss of contact with family and friends; and culminate in your complete alienation from the world you will one day re-enter. It's an eye-for-an-eye mentality that betrays how, beneath the civilised arguments of defence and prosecution, an Old Testament heart beats within the body of British justice. It's an attitude betrayed by the hysterical headlines every time the debate about Myra Hindley's release resurfaces; and by the row over the freeing of James Bulger's murderers, when threats to the boys' lives prompted police to move them and their families, and issue them with new identities. No-one believed in their redemption: no matter how many years Myra had languished inside, no matter how young Robert Thompson and Jon Venables had been when they perpetrated their crime. Given their faith in this tough and unforgiving philosophy, can we really expect people to lobby for more schemes to train prisoners? Can we hope for a more generous budget for education behind bars? Once you've been convicted, it would seem, you've forfeited all rights to our concern. Cherie Booth's lecture next week is perfectly timed: a White Paper on restructuring sentencing and court systems is due later this month. Together these two events spark a long-overdue debate on the rehabilitation of prisoners. Or at least drive home the point that we cannot dispose of criminals by locking them up and throwing away the key. He, or she, will be back. And then, unless things change, you can start to worry. · Cristina Odone is deputy editor of the New Statesman 