The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Wednesday November 4, 2004In the report below we quote the Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, as saying: "The evidence I have seen is that in most cases police are using them responsibly on the basis of behaviour and very occasionally on the basis of mere presence." We assumed he was talking about Asbos (antisocial behaviour orders). We have been asked to make clear that he was, in fact, speaking of dispersal orders.  The Liberal Democrats are to counter Labour jibes that they are "soft on crime" by performing a U-turn over anti-social behaviour measures.The party accepts that it scored an own goal, and provided opponents with ammunition, when it voted against last year's anti-social behaviour bill on the grounds of its opposition to dispersal orders. Now, in a policy shift, the home affairs spokesman Mark Oaten has said that the party backs dispersal orders, used if two or more people congregate on a street, if applied because of individuals' behaviour. It still opposes the power of police to move people on because of their mere presence. Mr Oaten is also encouraging Lib Dem-run councils to use anti-social behaviour orders after being convinced of their effectiveness. But, at the same time, he is calling for them to provide "Asbo-plus", that would offer mediation, advice on debt management, drug rehabilitation, and help for nuisance neighbours to tackle their anti-social behaviour while being "punished" by the order. Tony Blair signalled a shift in this direction last week. Yesterday Mr Oaten said his own conversion occurred after he spent a month shadowing police in Powys, Devon and Cornwall, Somerset, Hampshire and London. "The evidence I have seen is that in most cases police are using them [Asbos] responsibly on the basis of behaviour and very occasionally on the basis of mere presence. Having gone round the country, I can't, hand on my heart, say these aren't a useful thing." He has sent surveys to every chief superintendent in England and Wales to assess how many dispersal orders have been given and the grounds for such orders. The shift in policy comes days after the prime minister announced plans for more on-the-spot fines, delivered by parish and town council staff, and a huge expansion in Asbos.