A network of offshore accounts had been prepared, passwords and matching account details secretly intercepted. Using the stolen information, a team of foreign hackers smuggled into the bank dispatched payment orders to every corner of the globe.Had the international gang succeeded in siphoning £229m out of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation (SMBC), they would have pulled off the largest robbery in British criminal history.The elaborate operation almost outwitted security systems on the Swift (Society For Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication) payments mechanism. But unfortunately for the gang, some of the electronic forms had been filled in incorrectly.The gang's international profile, involving separate teams specialising in hacking and money-laundering, highlights the growing sophistication of criminal enterprises targeting the City of London, according to the Serious and Organised Crime Agency (Soca), which investigated the attempted robbery.Hugh Rodley, 61, was the driving force – if not the mastermind – behind the plot, the prosecution alleged. His original name was Hugh James McGeough. Having bought the title to a manor in Gloucestershire, he styled himself "Lord Hugh Rodley".According to prosecutors, he travelled to Dubai and the Seychelles to establish offshore accounts, faxed a forged authorisation order for €12m from a corner shop in Cheltenham, and flew out to Las Palmas after the raid in an attempt to shuffle the loot around foreign banks.Rodley, who declined to give evidence during the trial, insisted he was a legitimate businessman. His accomplices gave evidence that he tried to distance himself from companies established to receive the stolen cash.Both of the hackers hired from Belgium – Jan Van Osselaer, 32, and Gilles Poelvoorde, 35 – and the man on the inside of the bank, Kevin O'Donoghue, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to steal.O'Donoghue, 34, from Birmingham, was SMBC's security supervisor. He arranged for the hackers to sneak into the bank, disabling CCTV cameras and even cutting wires.On three occasions at night in September 2004, they installed key-logging software on the bank's computers that recorded the keystrokes used by commercial and private customers when they entered their passwords and log-ins.On the evening of Friday 1 October, they entered the building again and sent money transfer orders via the Swift payments system.The first set of 10 messages should have sent heaps of cash around accounts in Spain, Dubai, Hong Kong, Turkey and Israel. When it became clear the following day that none of the transfers had gone through – due to an error filling in the Swift forms – the hackers entered the next night and sent out even larger orders, emptying accounts owned by companies such as Toshiba International, Nomura Asset Management and Sumitomo Chemical UK. The largest single transfer was for £41m sent to Dubai. Other payments were supposed to end up in Liechtenstein and Singapore.When the break-in and attempted theft were spotted on the Monday, the police were contacted immediately. The hackers and O'Donoghue were the first to be identified – the CCTV tapes had not been totally wiped and their late-night entry into the bank was discovered.Poelvoorde, already serving five years for fraud in Belgium, was carrying a false passport when arrested. Osselaer, it later emerged, had a computer science degree.Both Rodley and his long-term business partner, Bernard Davies, 74, were charged with conspiracy to steal, defraud, transfer criminal property and remove criminal property from the UK.Davies pleaded not guilty. On the night of 16 January he killed himself at his flat in central London. A letter sent by Davies to the police explained: "Rodley has tried very hard to get Nash [another defendant] to change his story over the Cheltenham fax … I'm very tired and have lost the will to fight."David Nash, also known as David Coyne, had a long criminal record of deception and drug dealing. The owner of a Soho sex shop, he claimed he had been tricked into fronting a company to receive millions of pounds from the SMBC bank scam.Nash, 47, from Durrington, West Sussex, denied knowing what was happening. "I am streetwise," he admitted at Snaresbrook crown court, "but that doesn't go into defrauding Japanese banks. The plans were idiotic."Had the raid succeeded it would have been more than four times larger than the previous record UK bank robbery: £53m taken from a Securitas depot in Kent in 2006.Others were arrested as part of the Soca inquiry. No one else has yet been charged. "More people are coming forward now and reporting such crimes," said Sharon Lemon, the deputy director of ecrime at Soca. Often we find out that [the different teams] in these raids have never met each other. In this case they bodged what they were trying to do."The same gang is thought to have targeted other banks in the UK and abroad. The court was told that some of the men had tried to extract £45,120 from the English National Ballet with a false cheque and £200,000 from an Austrian embassy account.