Families of all Harold Shipman victims will get a full hearing from the independent inquiry into the issues raised by the GP's crimes, said its chairman yesterday.Lord Laming of Tewin effectively put paid to ministers' hopes of a short, sharp inquiry lasting six months with his public reassurance to relatives that their concerns would be central. He tacitly accepted that the September deadline for his report was unlikely to be met. "I have discussed this matter with the secretary of state [Alan Milburn] and he and I agreed that thoroughness will have to go hand in hand with speed," he said. "Once we have got into the inquiry and we have understood fully the complexities of the issues we will be tackling, we will be in a better position to advise him on our timetable." The assurances failed to satisfy the families. Shipman, the Manchester GP jailed for 15 murders, is now thought to have killed more than 100 patients but is unlikely to be charged with any further crimes due to the impossibility of an impartial trial. Relatives, particularly of those who deaths were not considered at the trial, are unhappy that the inquiry is not to be held in public. Ann Alexander, of the law firm Alexander Harris, said her clients had not been told about the arrangements before they were made public yesterday, and feared they were being asked only to relate their experiences - which was unacceptable. "They are concerned that the evidence is open and that they should have an opportunity to take part in the cross-examination process," she said. "They want to ensure that the right people give evidence, and that there isn't any suggestion that there's a cover-up. "They want the inquiry to be conducted in a proper judicial manner," she said (ie, like those into BSE and the Bristol heart deaths). "Unless there's complete transparency, I don't see how the government is going to restore public confidence." Lord Laming will have two other panel members: Hazel Genn, professor of socio-legal studies at University College and Aneez Esmail, head of Manchester university's school of primary care. He said anybody with relevant evidence would be invited to contribute, and that importance would be attached to addressing relatives' concerns. The main purpose was to make recommendations to government about how best patients could be safeguarded from malign or inadequate doctors.