Detectives are still waiting to question two men arrested over the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby, the young soldier who was hacked to death in London on Wednesday.It emerged on Thursday that both of the men alleged to have killed Rigby had been known to the domestic security service, MI5, and the police over an eight-year period, but had been assessed as peripheral figures and not subjected to a full-scale investigation.On Friday the family of the 25-year-old Royal Fusilier spoke of their pride in him and their grief over his death. "You don't expect it to happen when he's in the UK. You think they're safe," said Rebecca Rigby, the mother of their two-year-old son, Jack.She described Rigby as a devoted father, adding: "I love Lee and always will. I am proud to be his wife and he was due to come up this weekend so we could continue our future together as a family."Rigby's body has been formally identified but the cause of his death has not been confirmed following a postmortem examination carried out on Thursday. An inquest into his death will be opened in due course.One of the two suspects has been named as Michael Olumide Adebolajo, who was filmed brandishing knives and justifying the attack as a strike against the west while Rigby lay yards away bloodied and fatally wounded.Adebolajo, from a Nigerian churchgoing family and who converted to Islam, had complained of harassment by MI5 in the last three years after he came to the intelligence agency's attention.The identity of the second suspect was not confirmed, but police on Thursday raided a house in Greenwich where Michael Adebowale, 22, was registered as a voter.The suspects, shot by police shortly after the incident, remain in separate hospitals, too badly injured to be questioned at present.The men are not being detained under terrorism laws but under normal criminal legislation contained in the Police and Criminal Evidence Act (Pace). This sets detectives much tighter time limits on deciding whether to charge or release suspects, meaning police have up to 96 hours as opposed to 28 days under terrorism legislation.The time limits do not yet apply to the two suspects as they are not medically fit to be questioned. Once the Pace clock starts, usually when the suspects are moved from hospital to a police station, detectives will have an initial 24 hours to detain without charge and can then get a 36-hour extension. If they still need more time they can apply to a magistrate to hold the suspects without charge for another 36 hours.Detectives have also arrested a 29-year-old man and a 29-year-old woman on suspicion of conspiracy to murder Rigby, suggesting there may have been a wider plot to carry out the attack. The woman was arrested at a flat in Greenwich, south-east London, on Thursday.David Cameron said on Thursday that parliament's intelligence and security committee would examine the wider role of the police and MI5, an inquiry that is expected to address any lessons that may need to be learned after counter-terrorism officials decided not to monitor the suspects.There were some suggestions that one of the two men may have tried to visit Somalia. Whitehall sources did not deny reports that one of the suspects was stopped while trying to travel to the war-torn east African country. Somalia is feared by counter-terrorism officials to be a training ground for violent jihadists.The extremist cleric Omar Bakri Muhammad, who has been expelled from Britain, told the Guardian he had tutored Adebolajo in Islam after he converted to the religion in 2003. He is the former leader of al-Muhajiroun, an organisation banned for professing extremist views. Muhammad described Adebolajo as a shy man who had been angered by the Iraq invasion, and who would ask questions about when violence was justified.Adebolajo had a Muslim name, Mujaahid, which means one who engages in jihad. He went to meetings of the now-banned Islamist organisation from around 2004 to 2011, but stopped attending the meetings and those of its successor organisations two years ago.On Thursday, detectives from Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command raided five addresses in London and one in Lincolnshire that was the Adebolajo family home.Sources stressed that the investigation was at an early stage, but detectives are examining whether the arrested woman was in a relationship with one of the two men detained on Wednesday, and what the links are between the four people they have in custody. The arrests are a clear signal that counter-terrorism detectives suspect the attackers may not have acted alone.