Labour's electorally critical record on crime came under attack today as the Conservatives claimed many police authorities would face budget shortfalls next year, when the next general election is likely to be held.Despite the government's commitment to putting an extra 20,000 community support officers on the street and the announcement in last month's spending review of an extra £2.2bn for policing, at least six forces face multimillion-pound deficits, according to research the Tories have carried out.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said the alleged shortfall would led to a reduction of officers on the street and more crime across the country.He told the BBC: "We were beginning to get feedback from police authorities saying that they were not going to have enough money next year - Suffolk £6m short, Norfolk £7.8m, Kent £19m. "So we looked around the country and we found a large number of police authorities saying they were going to face difficulties next year. "This is completely at odds with what the government is saying and actually will lead to fewer policemen on the beat and therefore a bigger risk of crime for the country. "These were numbers given to us by the police authorities, not our exaggeration. We have just taken the numbers we have been given and are reflecting what we have been told about the effects on their attempts to maintain the police service." The survey found the Metropolitan police expecting to have to save £60m in order to balance its budget and Kent police facing a £19m deficit, which could lead to cuts.Devon and Cornwall said it might need to save about £5m next year, while Cambridgeshire blamed financial problems on one-off operations such as the Soham murder case and the policing of animal rights extremist activity against Huntingdon Life Sciences.However, an element of pre-negotiation jostling from the police authorities cannot be discounted. Their settlement for next year will be made known in November by David Blunkett.The Association of Police Authorities (APA) said the figures from the Conservative survey "sound like they are too pessimistic" but warned that there would be "a major funding gap" that could lead to cuts.Jim Wilson, a member of the APA's funding group and chairman of Norfolk Police Authority, said: "There is a lot of concern about police funding for the next financial year. "Although we will not see government allocations until November, the Home Office has indicated it will not increase funding in real terms. "We anticipate a 3% increase in government funding, but the average police authority needs a 5.5% budget increase just to maintain the current level of services. The Office of the Deputy Prime Minister will not tolerate high increases in precepts on council tax payers." He said a 3% rise in precepts and 3% from the Home Office would leave police authorities with a shortfall of around £350m nationally. "There is going to be a major funding gap and there are consequences that flow from that," he said. "It points to a situation where police authorities will have to look at cuts." With staff costs accounting for 83% of police authorities' budgets, they could find themselves forced to cut back on civilian backroom workers. Police officers could then be moved off the beat to cover for them, Mr Wilson said. "Eventually cuts will be felt in terms of police visibility and in the reassurance given by frontline policing. That would fly totally in the face of what the home secretary wants to see." The home secretary, David Blunkett, later responded, challenging the Tories to account for their planned £1.6bn cut to the Home Office budget. He said: "The Conservatives must say where the axe will fall. How many police officers, community support officers and CCTV schemes will they cut? One thing is clear: with the Tories, more cuts means more crime." The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, said: "The Tories have no properly costed solutions to local government funding problems. They cannot even fund their wild claims to increase police numbers by 40,000 without putting asylum seekers on a fictional desert island." The survey found:  · The Greater Manchester force is looking for more money from the government in its next budget and is "particularly concerned" over the high number of officers who were recruited 30 years ago and are now at the point of retirement. There is also a potential problem with the funding of pensions  · Kent is looking at a deficit of £19m, which may lead to cuts  · Thames Valley is expecting a "tight" budget settlement and could be in deficit if it does not make savings  · Gloucestershire is expecting its settlement to be quite low · Devon and Cornwall expects its budget to be tight. It may have to save around £5m next year  · Cambridgeshire has problems caused by the costs of one-off operations, including the Soham murders case and the policing of animal rights extremist activity against Huntingdon Life Sciences · Surrey gets the lowest settlement of any police authority as crime levels are low. However, it has the same administrative and staffing costs as any other authority, compounded by the high cost of housing in the south-east  · Derbyshire expects a shortfall  · The Metropolitan police expects to have to save £60m to balance its budget  · Warwickshire is still working on potential figures but is looking for internal efficiency savings  · Durham, Merseyside, Hampshire and North Yorkshire do not have any specific problems  · The Conservatives quoted a report last month by the BBC's Look East programme that claimed Suffolk was facing a £6m deficit  · Northamptonshire faces a shortfall of £1.7m, and Norfolk is trying to head off a £7.8m deficit, the survey quoted the BBC as saying