The home secretary today vowed to fight his defeat in the Lords last night, where Conservative and Liberal Democrat peers blocked a clause giving Mr Blunkett the power to intervene in failing police forces.Last night peers rejected clause five of the police reform bill, which gives a home secretary powers to issue directions to chief police officers - breaching the British tradition of autonomy for the police force.Mr Blunkett lost no time today in hitting back, telling journalists that: "People will be quite surprised to learn that the home secretary has responsibility for ensuring consistent policing across the country but no power to implement it. "If we can sack chief constables as we can for lack of probity, then we ought to be in a position to ensure that we can obtain their removal for gross incompetence." The defeat came despite last minute concessions from the Home Office yesterday, allowing police chiefs time to take remedial action, and forcing the home secretary to spell out his reasons for taking action against a chief constable.Although the bill will get an easy majority in the Commons, further safeguard clauses may be added to ensure it passes through the Lords. The bill was introduced in the Lords, and therefore the government cannot use the Parliament Act to force it through if peers reject it.Former Labour home office minister Mike O'Brien said he hoped Mr Blunkett would seek a compromise with the Lords over the clause about powers over chief constables. "One option would be to say that the home secretary doesn't have unfettered power to dismiss a chief constable as he will now, so that it is subject to a safeguard that it would only be used in circumstances which the government can show that that chief constable is not performing his duties properly," he said.The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Simon Hughes, said he believed the government would probably succeed in re-inserting the clause. "I don't think even with the amendments that the government put to the Lords yesterday which were accepted, which certainly improved the bill, I don't think that this clause will go through," Mr Hughes told the programme. "So the government have a choice to make, and I hope the home secretary having heard the argument and having seen the very significant majority in the Lords yesterday across the parties, will accept that in this respect he has to amend the bill," he added.  · The home secretary opened up a second front today, reiterating his attack on sentencing policies by magistrates.Mr Blunkett said courts should act "swiftly and in a common sense fashion" with persistent offences, which at the moment did not result in teenagers being put into custody. "All of this of course needs to follow preventive action, diversionary work, extension of activity after school and at weekends and in the holidays, putting in place that intensive supervision and electronic tagging," he told the Today programme. "All of that followed by immediate custody for those who have persistently offended and at the moment, walk out in the street, cock a snook at the police, demoralise not only the police but the public." Asked if he agreed that sentences for such offences were "piffling", Mr Blunkett said: "Very often, they are breathtaking ... I do agree that very often they are inappropriate. "However to get it right we have to have a sentencing policy that takes a common sense view of first offences and non-violent offences, and that does mean actually putting in place alternatives." 