Scotland Yard's pioneering Operation Trident against black-on-black gun crime is to be given new officers and a wider remit to break up the most ruthless gangs and drug barons in a major expansion of its role.After the outrage over the murder of seven-year-old Toni-Ann Byfield, Trident officers and officials are meeting to discuss the new plans, the Guardian has learned. The number of officers will rise from 267 to 300 this year. Though the five-year-old initiative has achieved successes in dealing with gun crime within the black community, it now wants to address the issues behind the gun violence on London's streets. As well as seeking to solve individual crimes after they have happened, Trident expects to become more proactive. Its work in forging links with black communities will be stepped up but it will also concentrate more resources on attempts to disrupt gang activity before it flares into street violence. The operation will also tackle the large-scale distribution of guns and drugs before they reach street level. More officers specialising in gun crimes will be placed under Trident's umbrella, while the unit's expertise may also help address guns and violence plaguing other ethnic groups, such as the Turkish community. The killing of Toni-Ann and her father Bertram Byfield, 41, in Kensal Green, north-west London, will also accelerate measures to improve the witness protection programme. Amid fears that some boroughs are refusing to volunteer accommodation so that witnesses can be moved out of danger, Ken Livingstone, the London mayor, is seeking to negotiate a protocol leading to a network of new safehouses across the capital. His officials said those councils which refused involvement would be named and shamed. After three years, those close to Trident say for all the advances, there is a need to "think out of the box" to defeat the gangsters. Detective Chief Superintendent John Coles, who leads Trident, told the Guardian: "We don't want to be in the position where we are only reacting to crime. We want to stop it in the first place. We are doing more joint operations with customs and it would be a big step if we could impact on the supply of imitation weapons." The Kensal Rise murders had affected mainstream thinking about the unit's work: "Most people saw this as just a black-on-black issue but now people are saying this is intolerable." Lee Jasper, the chairman of the Trident independent advisory group and the mayor's adviser on policing, said: "The discussion we will have this weekend is about expansion, how we can take Trident to the next level. We need to move upstream. "A lot of the violence is drug related. We need to ad dress what happens between drugs entering the country and ending up on the frontline. With guns, we know there are giant conversion warehouses being operated turning replicas into the firearms being used on our streets. We need to get to them." He said improvements to witness protection were vital. "The level of fear in the community is extremely high because the kind of people we are talking about are the kind who would shoot a seven-year-old girl in the back. They are ruthless beyond belief." Officials say that, notwithstanding this week's atrocity, they are reviewing Trident from a position of strength. The statistics show Trident is achieving a lot of success. There were 11 gun murders last year compared with 16 in the previous year. It is clearing up all the cases it takes on and attempted murders, which fall within its remit, are down 40%.