Two men were jailed yesterday for terrorising a vicar and his family by claiming to be vampires.Benjamin Lewis, 25, and Scott Bower, 26, made abusive and frightening phone calls and posted obscene pictures on the church noticeboard. Lewis's girlfriend, Natalie Gibson, joined in. Lewis, from Totton in Hampshire, was sentenced to 12 months in prison at Southampton crown court, while Bower, also of Totton, received a six-month sentence. Gibson, who is pregnant, was given a suspended sentence of three months. All three denied charges of religiously aggravated harassment. Sentencing Lewis, Judge John Boggis QC described how he had led the campaign against the Rev Christopher Rowberry, vicar of St Mary the Virgin church, in Totton, and his family. He told him: "This is a case of repeated victimisation of a man who showed you tolerance and understanding, the effect of which was to drive a wedge of fear into his family. The distress of his wife was clear for all to see." Between October 1 and December 31 last year, the three made repeated disturbing phone calls to Mr Rowberry and his family. They also set off fireworks at the vicarage and left obscene pictures, including one of a disembowelled Christ, on the noticeboard. While claiming to be vampires, the group made howling noises from a graveyard near the vicarage. The court heard that Mr Rowberry, his wife, Karen, and children, Hannah, 15, and Simon, 17, were disturbed by the campaign. The court heard that Lewis retained the belief he was a vampire and was undergoing psychiatric treatment. Judge Boggis told him: "You knew full well what you were doing, that it was bound to cause distress, and you were conducting this campaign expressly because your target was a vicar." The judge said he believed Bower and Gibson had been unable to stand up to Lewis. In mitigation, the court heard that Bower was of below average intelligence. Sentencing Gibson, the judge condemned a "particularly offensive" phone call in which she claimed to be in love with the vicar's daughter. All three defendants were put under a restraining order not to contact the Rowberry family, except to allow Bower to visit his grandmother's grave during the day.