When the phone rang at the sheriff's office in Liberty county, Texas, on Tuesday7 June, the call triggered a story that would captivate America's news networks and cause ripples of interest across the world. But it's not every day that the police get a tip-off about 30 dismembered bodies, including children.After several hours the police called off the search. "There's no crime scene," announced Liberty county judge Craig McNair on live television (pictured). Instead, the police's attention was now focused on arresting the psychic who had twice called in with the revelation.Much of the debate since has focused on whether the police should have acted on unsolicited "evidence" offered by a psychic. Surely they should only act on "hard" evidence? But the officers involved have said that because there was the possibility of harm to children, they were duty-bound to investigate.The story poses a question that has long hung over the police: do they ever use psychics to assist them? The routine answer has always been "no" and there seems to be little evidence that they do. But, as this week's case shows, the police are routinely contacted by psychics offering leads, especially during high-profile cases, and sometimes act on the information.In 2007, for example, Portuguese police said they were following up on leads offered by local psychics in the hunt for Madeleine McCann and had two dossiers of apparent visions and sightings of Madeleine. "We can't put these messages in the bin," said chief inspector Olegario Sousa. "We must check them all in case it might be from the kidnapper." Similarly, the police received tip-offs from psychics during the hunts for Peter Sutcliffe and Ian Huntley.In 2006, a group called UK Sceptics formally asked every police force if they had ever used a psychic. All the replies were a predictable "no" – except one. The Metropolitan Police admitted that in one case in 1965 a psychic had "played a major part". A 37-year-old haulage operator called Thomas "Ginger" Marks had mysteriously disappeared and Freddie Foreman, a gangster who worked for the Krays, was acquitted of the murder in 1975. But in 2000 he admitted the killing and that Marks's body had been thrown in the sea.The psychic's involvement is still unclear, but the Met say the case records are stored at the national archives in Kew. All that we know, beyond Foreman's confession, is that no body was ever found and the case is still officially "unsolved". 