A man who beat and strangled his mother, then fled with her bank cards to Spain where he killed a second woman in a random knife attack, has been jailed for life and will serve a minimum of 27 years and three months.Sean Heiss, 30, from Surbiton, south London, was already serving a 22-year jail sentence for killing Clementina Liscano in Barcelona when he was extradited back to Britain to be tried for the earlier murder of 58-year-old Margaret Sheehy.The Old Bailey heard that Heiss throttled and punched Sheehy to death at her home in Kingston in June 2012 before using her bank cards to board a Eurostar train to Paris and then travel on to San Sebastián in Spain.Three months later he was arrested by Spanish police for stabbing Liscano to death after she disturbed him sleeping rough in a bank cashpoint booth in Barcelona.Heiss, who has a history of psychotic illness, did not dispute that he killed his mother but denied murdering her on grounds of diminished responsibility. But a jury convicted him by a majority of 10 to one following a trial at the Old Bailey. The judge Gerald Gordon said he had taken into account Heiss’s mental state. Heiss was diagnosed with negative schizophrenia in 2005 in Ireland. He stopped taking medication and had not seen a GP, and was likely to have been suffering some psychotic symptoms in the period leading up to the murder. The jury found that these symptoms had not substantially impaired his rational judgment.The judge rejected the prosecution’s claim that Heiss was motivated by money when he killed his mother, saying: “In my view the cause of the killing that night was anger, not greed.” Gordon said the jail term would not begin until Spanish authorities decided to send Heiss back to the UK and would run alongside any outstanding sentence for the murder of Liscano, whom he tried to behead during a brutal attack. During the trial, prosecutor Sarah Plaschkes QC told the jury that before the killing, Sheehy, a telemarketing executive at IntelliFlo in Kingston, had been planning to sell her flat and live mortgage-free in Bournemouth or Spain. At the same time, she had considered paying off some of Heiss’s debts after he got into difficulties and was living on benefits. But by the weekend before her death, the mother-of-two had told colleagues she was going to stay in her flat and continue working after all. Meanwhile, Heiss had quit his job at Waitrose and was £200 overdrawn in one bank account and had £2.82 in his current account.On the night of 11 June 2012, Sheehy’s next-door neighbour Ben Hawes, a former Great Britain hockey captain, heard raised voices coming from her flat and noises that sounded like a cross between “a shout and a scream”.Sheehy’s body was discovered the next evening after she failed to arrive for work and colleagues raised the alarm. A postmortem examination found that she had suffered blunt force trauma to the head, possibly caused by punches, and compression to the neck, either from a ligature or hands. 