A police officer told the Damilola Taylor murder trial today how he desperately tried in vain to revive the ten-year-old with mouth-to-mouth resuscitation.PC James Greenhill told the Old Bailey he was the first member of the emergency services to arrive at the third-floor stairwell where Damilola had staggered after being stabbed in the leg shortly after 4pm on November 2 2000.The officer said he tried mouth-to-mouth but was unable to find a pulse as Damilola lay just 200 yards from his front door on the North Peckham estate, south London. The court has heard that a marble was found in the schoolboy's throat during an autopsy. The prosecution alleges that the marble was put there to stifle his cries of pain by the gang of four youths who tried to steal his silver jacket and attacked him in a quiet street close to his home.Two brothers aged 16, their 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old boy deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob. Pc Greenhill said there were very large patches of blood around Damilola. "They were very dark and quite horrific, splashed about 18 inches apart with a small footprint in each indicating a child."He said that Nigerian-born Damilola was lying on a small landing at the top of a flight of stairs, with his head on the last step. "His head was back at an angle and there was a group of workmen from a nearby office standing near him," the officer said. "I pushed my way through to get to the boy and knelt down next to him, putting my ear to his mouth to see whether or not he was breathing and looked down the line of his chest to see if it was rising."The officer said he could not hear any breathing or see his chest rising or falling. "My colleague was tending to his left leg and I assessed that maybe with the large amount of blood and the small wound there may have been other puncture wounds to his body. "So I pulled up his top and ran my arm over his torso to see if there were any other wounds that might stop me from resuscitating him."The officer called for a torch to shine into the boy's throat but could see no obstruction. "I satisfied myself I had cleared the tongue and did mouth-to-mouth again and it went a little bit more successfully. I managed to get a few breaths into his lungs but I was not able to resuscitate him," he said. Then an ambulance crew arrived. Deborah Mason told the court that she arrived with a colleague at 4.59pm, 12 minutes after the 999 call was logged. She said she called for back-up after seeing the blood. Her crew were joined by paramedics and a doctor from an air ambulance. Asked by Mark Dennis, prosecuting, if there were any signs of life, she replied: "No." A statement from a doctor at King's College hospital said Damilola was officially pronounced dead at 5.47pm. He had been on his way home from an after school computer class when he was allegedly attacked by the youths.Earlier today, a woman juror wept as the court was shown a video of a trail of blood left by the dying schoolboy, who had struggled around 30 yards to the stairwell.The video was taken two hours after the killing and showed a dark, winter evening with rain pouring on police cordon tapes, pieces of broken green glass and bright red blood. Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria Taylor, had left the room before witness Malcolm O'Neill was called to say how he discovered the blood trail. The video was shown twice to the jury - the second time with Mr O'Neill, one of the local workmen who were first on the scene, explaining what it showed. Asked by Mark Dennis, prosecuting, if the tape represented what he saw, Mr O'Neill said: "I would say that is how it was. I would just like to say there were big pools but the rain washed them away, I guess." The hearing was adjourned until Monday.