"I'm shy. I've never been shy but I am now." Kev is bewildered, even the gleam of his shaven head looks embarrassed. "I've always liked girls Al, I've never had any problem at all with girls. But now, I'll tell you, I'm tongue tied." Kev will be going home soon and he's been out on a home leave to sort out his job and college course. "I met this girl and I just stood there, she must have thought I was a right prawn." "Yeah," says Tom, "I got a letter from Malkie and he's the same. He says his English group is full of women but he's just like Bashful was with Snow White. He's been out weeks and no sign of legover at all."There is quite a bit of speculation at the moment as to how it will be on the out. Four of my long-term students are making plans and starting to wonder. Paul is getting a bit concerned about how he can present himself. His personal statement on his Ucas form begins: "I have had a colourful and kaleidoscopic life." And he has. We agree that the edited highlights might be quite sufficient for the delicate sensibilities of university admissions tutors but Paul's highlights, even edited, are quite something, and by the third draft we have agreed that most of them will have to go. He cheers up quite a bit though as he realises that there is plenty left to write about; there's the philosophy and the A-level English, the OU course, the acting, the reggae and the opera, the mountain of reading.In spite of all this, I suspect that the dominant factor in Paul's application will be his criminal record. I can see the problem, of course I can. How would you react if your 18-year-old daughter in her first Virginia Woolf seminar found herself sitting next to someone fresh out of jail? How would it be if your son's next-door neighbour in the hall of residence had a history of doing God knows what?The guys know this. As Robert says: "They're not going to have me. Who in their right mind would let me in?" Some do, some don't. Sometimes there's an open door, sometimes the guys have to take oaths of secrecy. But whatever the academics say about joining a course, I have never heard of anyone being let into university accommodation. This can be a bit desperate. A couple of years ago one of the guys applied for a grant to buy a tent. I think he got it as well.I really wish that they would let the guys into halls of residence - after all, that's what prison is, sort of. They'd fit in really well, be an influence for good. They know the value of quietness and courtesy and what it is to live close up to people. A calming glance from one of my students would do more good more quickly than any number of wardens and porters. If any teenager's mum could see the standards of cleanliness and order in my students' rooms, could see the work rate and sensible bed times, the calls and letters home, then they would want them, demand them, next door to their kids.They worry about being good enough and it's completely ridiculous. Paul was already doing an OU course when he first appeared in my philosophy class, then Robert turned up, another OU student. They're a pair of tough guys (well, by my standards they are) who smile quietly and set a serious tone and carry with them an air of disbelief. "It's me doing this," says Paul and shakes his head. And Robert: "I never thought about no philosophy shit, and now, bang."They've talked Seb and Tom into applying for OU courses, not that they needed much persuasion. It's how things catch on, like a good virus picking its way through the prison. I'm a bit superfluous at the moment. I've just about got the sense to shut up when Paul says, "Oh yeah, Rousseau, I know about him, did him with the OU", and off he goes Rousseauing his way through the morning for us. A couple of weeks ago, Kev went off on a little ramble through Plato when we were talking about Phillip Larkin. He must have seen something in my face because he stopped, looked quite cross and said: "See, I do listen to what you tell me. You don't think I do, do you?" What do you say? All I can do is wonder how their first seminars at the university will go. Will Robert say "fuck"? Will Paul do the slow, Dirty Harry stare from under his dreads? I hope so.