The US based news network CNN yesterday won an appeal to broadcast proceedings in the inquiry into the murderous medical career of serial killer Harold Shipman. But filming will be banned while families of Shipman's patients give evidence.Dame Janet Smith, chairwoman of the inquiry which is investigating the deaths of at least 401 of Shipman's patients, said filming would be allowed in the second phase which will examine aspects of the doctor's medical practices in Hyde, Greater Manchester. In an experiment beginning next spring, broacasters will be allowed to televise feeds from the inquiry's voice-activated cameras, which have been used to allow families of victims in Hyde to watch the hearings live. If televised broadcasts do not prove disruptive they will be allowed to continue until the end of the inquiry in 2003. However, Dame Janet refused to allow live broadcasts of the first phase of the inquiry, which will hear evidence from patients' relatives in an attempt to determine how many people Shipman killed. Dame Janet said televising the evidence of patients' relatives would "give rise to an unacceptable degree of additional stress". She added: "I recognise the public interest in seeing television reports of the proceedings. On the other hand I am concerned that the exposure to wider publicity might make many witnesses unwilling to cooperate and affect the validity of their testimony." CNN made its application to film the Shipman inquiry in July. It was supported in part by the Tameside families' support group, but opposed by the West Pennine health authority, Greater Manchester police, and several individuals who were expected to give evidence during the inquiry's second phase. Dame Janet ruled yesterday that practice staff at Shipman's Market Street surgery, including the nurse, who were reluctant to be filmed, would not be filmed. She would accept applications from witnesses not wishing to have their evidence broadcast. Witnesses may also remain anonymous through pixelation, which would blur the televised image. Elizabeth Oldfield, a solicitor representing the Shipman practice staff, earlier said that her clients sought to avoid being televised. "From the outset, once the news of Dr Shipman's arrest broke, my clients had to endure members of the public hurling abuse at them." Shipman, 55, was convicted last year of the murders of 15 patients and is serving life in Frankland prison, Co Durham.