There was trouble on Upper Street as I exited Angel tube and headed towards a throb of diverted shoppers and flashing blue light. Police vans were parked ostentatiously across both sides of the dual carriageway and tape was stretched around every erect object in the vicinity. Apparently there was no way through to Duncan Street, which is where I was supposed to be. Overhearing an agitated copper describe to a passer-by that "a lad lying with his chest split open" was the cause of the obstruction, I decided that an alternative route was required, given the circumstances - of which I remained none the wiser - and made an about turn towards City Road.On the other side, the police cordon spanned all the way to the old courthouse on Duncan Street, which was my destination. However, the entrance was clear and I left the street, empty but for police, ambulances and sirens, and made my way in to the Crisis Open Christmas quiet shelter for the homeless.This was my second shift. My first had been on the shelter's first day of operations and, after a few last-minute preparations, the guests had arrived in dribs and drabs, having endured the main shelter for the time it took to get referred to this more peaceful place of refuge. Faces then had been worn out, well worn and tired; eyes glazed and set with suspicion. Many of them fresh from the street, the guests kept one another - and the volunteers - at arm's length, often looking for a quiet corner to sit and think and drink tea, in the large and gradually warming rooms.On my first shift I had chatted to Terry (not his real name), who had recently suffered a breakdown and was homeless for the second time in his life. He had an arrangement with a West End shopkeeper, who turned a blind eye to his squatting in the storage space of his premises, providing he took the bins out each day. Terry wanted to become a chef again, buoyed by occasional contact with his goddaughter, but, as he stammered his way through tales of his recently deceased parents, shying away from conversation with any of the other guests, it was clear that Terry had little confidence in his ability to revive himself for a second time. "I'm 54. I should be thinking about what I'm going to do when I'm retired. Instead I'm only just thinking about how to get started."I saw Terry again on my second shift and was stunned by how much he had changed. He wore new clothes that suited him, had shaved and was boldly chatting with volunteers and other guests, his stammer apparently overcome by confidence. He was on his way to the advice centre. I don't know whether he found the tools he required to improve his situation more permanently. Nor do I know if he will have the personal strength to achieve such an impossible task. However, I do know that Crisis, in just a few days, had already made a profound difference to Terry's life - and not for the first time. Indeed, the last time he was homeless, Crisis had instilled Terry with such confidence that he had dragged himself back into job, flat and society, only to return to Crisis the following year as a volunteer, so grateful was he for what he had been given.Not only had hot showers, meals, haircuts, massages, and even manicures worked to physically restore the guests' dignity, but, perhaps even more importantly, the shelter had provided the guests with a warm, safe environment in which to sit and chat freely with those around them and enjoy a spot of human contact, so frequently denied to rough sleepers and those in temporary accommodation. For guests such as Terry, Crisis had made a profound impact, both on a personal level, in terms of self respect and re-humanisation, and on a broader social level, returning a sense of social perspective to those who had become estranged from wider society, and, hopefully, providing a platform towards reintegration.This much may seem obvious. But one thing I noticed during my shifts was how much the work benefited me. I first volunteered with Crisis when I was 18, and I remember being shocked by some of the bleak stories and images I absorbed during those cold nights in Limehouse. I remember looking at the guests around me and feeling utterly powerless in the face of the despair that shrouded their lives. I looked at the other, older volunteers too, and saw jaded, desensitised leaders, dulled by the inhumanity of the city. But the following year was different - and this year was another world entirely. Having had my eyes opened at 18, homelessness became a reality that was typified not just by the beggar's outstretched hand, but by individual stories, some sorry and some funny, some pathetic and some stained with misfortune. I needed that initial shock at 18 - and the realisation of the vast gulfs that tear through our class-based society - in order to begin my own, small effort towards healing some of those rifts.Though I give up relatively little of my time, what my occasional work at Crisis has given me is a better understanding of the society in which I live. It has helped to burst the social bubble that too easily envelopes me, keeping me comfortably protected from social circles that ever float around me, but which remain conveniently out of reach. It has affected my self-interest and increased my dependence on society, and vice versa. In short, Crisis has not only touched the lives of the guests, but of the volunteers, too.As I left the old courthouse and headed back to the tube, blue lights continued to fracture the night sky. Rumours were spreading that a young boy had been killed by another of a similar age: yet more disenfranchised teens, with little sense of society around them. Chances are one or two of them will end up on the streets in the next few years - perhaps even benefiting from Crisis at some stage. But wouldn't it be better if it never reached that point? Wouldn't it be better if they discovered a sense of social worth before hitting the bottom and relying on others to help them back up?Volunteering at Crisis might not be the be all and end all of healing our social problems, but in terms of reorienting isolated sections of community, helping to heal ever-widening gulfs between rich and poor, and giving people of all kinds a sense of social perspective, it is certainly a step in the right direction.