It is almost 15 years since Deborah Linsley's last ride: since the day she was dropped by her brother at Pett's Wood station in south London; since the afternoon she boarded the 2.16 from Orpington to Victoria; since the moment, 10 minutes after the train's arrival at its destination, when her body was found in a closed compartment, punctured by 11 stab wounds. Deborah Linsley was 26.A lot has changed in those 15 years. The old, closed-compartment bone-rattlers that gave Deborah's killer his privacy, went long ago, to be replaced by open-plan carriages. At Victoria station, there are differences, too, not just in the vault of the geometric roof but in the banks of CCTV cameras which keep watch on us now. In all that time, however, there is one thing that has not changed - we still do not know who murdered Deborah on 23 March 1988. We live in the age of DNA profiling, a time when science can unlock the secrets of an ancient drop of blood smaller than a pinhead. Only last month, a court in Ballymena jailed Steven Shepherd, 47, for the rape and murder of 82-year-old Vera Waring in her home, two decades before. He had been a suspect at the time but only now were they able to match his DNA to a spot of blood at the scene. The Waring case has been closed; the Linsley case remains resolutely open. Not that Deborah has been forgotten. The top brass at the Metropolitan Police will tell you that no case has ever been forgotten; that an unsolved murder has never been 'closed', only 'put away' or 'put on the shelf'. But even the Met's staunchest defender would accept that their record on unsolved murders was not, in the past, all it could be. Four years ago this weekend, Lord Macpherson published his watershed report into the mishandling of the police inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. Amid the headline-grabbing charges of institutional racism and incompetence, there were other, more technical criticisms of the way the Met reviewed unsolved murders. The Met argue that they had recognised their shortcomings even before Macpherson. After all, the clean-up rate for murders in Britain is around 92 per cent and the Met was managing to solve only 84 per cent. Spurred on by Macpherson, they decided something had to be done. The solution was the Murder Review Group. Serving officers tell you that the most intense part of their jobs is always the first days of a new murder inquiry. They talk about the 'white heat' of an investigation. The MRG is the opposite, a place not of white heat but of cool study, of evaluation and extrapolation. The current review of the Deborah Linsley case, and others like it, is testament to just how sophisticated police methods have become and how far science can now take them. But it is also proof that however much manpower is put into the job and however hard the scientists work, sometimes unsolved murders remain just that. In the three years since the MRG started its work, not a single cold case picked up by them has been solved. It is work that requires patience, and Keith Chamberlain has that in spades. He used to be an officer with Cambridgeshire police; he was there for 32 years, mostly in the CID. Cambridgeshire has only a dozen suspicious deaths a year as against the 200 odd in the Met, but Chamberlain handled a fair slab of them. By the end, he was as experienced in the ways of murder as any Met officer. In 2000, when he was coming up for retirement, Chamberlain was invited back into the service, this time on a civilian grade, as an investigator with the Met's recently formed Murder Review Group. This was New Scotland Yard's big idea: to use the experience of senior investigating officers who would no longer have to deal with everyday police work. Part of their job would be reviews of new murder inquiries that hadn't had a result after 28 days, a kind of quality assurance task. The rest of the time it would be cold cases. Initially, eight pairs were assembled. Chamberlain was paired with Michael 'Dickie' Bird, a former Operation Trident officer, who'd spent the back end of his career fighting black-on-black gun crime in inner London. Chamberlain, the senior of the two, is cool and reserved. Bird is more emotional and forthright. 'When they get Deborah Linsley's killer,' Bird says, at one point, 'I want to be there to collar him,' though he knows he can't do that. The MRG investigators are now only civilians. If they believe there are grounds to re-investigate - to interview or detain suspects, to take fingerprints - that task must go back to serving officers with police powers. 'When we review a cold case, we're not looking for fault with the way the first investigation was conducted,' Chamberlain says. 'We're looking for missed opportunities, and in the main that means we're looking at forensics.' In the Linsley case, there was a small sample of blood at the scene that did not belong to the victim, but in 1988 there was no way of testing it. The first successful DNA match wouldn't take place for another year and even then it required a bucketful of blood for any hope of a result. Now they can get a DNA profile from something invisible to the eye, and last year they did so. Chamberlain says they know a lot about the killer from that drop. They just don't know the suspect's name. The DNA profile has been put on a database to be cross-checked against the 1.7 million that are already held there - from recent convictions, from serving prisoners - but there have been no matches. In the meantime, they are following other routes. 'You need to take yourself back to the original scene,' Chamberlain says. 'We try to look at it and say what would we have done in this situation.' They have stood on the platform at Pett's Wood to get a sense of the landscape. They have taken the train, studied the timings. On the wall of the office is a diagram of the 1988 carriages. They believe around 70 people travelled on it. They know the identities of 55 of them and their names appear on the diagram, alongside information about when they got on and off, the banal detail of a March day lived by dozens of people nearly 15 years ago. All the evidence points to the killing having taken place in the six-minute journey between Brixton and Victoria. A French au pair in another carriage reported hearing a scream shortly after the train left Brixton. 'When we saw how quick that was - six minutes - it got us thinking that maybe it was someone she knew,' Chamberlain says. 'An old boyfriend? A nutter from school?' So back they went: interviewing old friends, piecing together the network of relationships to see if anyone knew anything. 'There are witnesses who may have been young and easily influenced at the time and who will now be older,' Chamberlain explains. It's worked in the past with other cases but not this time, at least not so far. These are the daily disappointments of the MRG, ones that have to be communicated sensitively to the victims' families. Early on, they had to visit Deborah's parents, Arthur and Marguerite. 'When I told them we were reopening the case they were really pleased,' Chamberlain says. 'I told them I didn't want to build their hopes up but that I still think it should be looked at. The thing is, as well as being pleased, they were also realistic.' With good reason: there may be a DNA profile but that doesn't necessarily mean the killer is out there to be caught. They are reasonably sure the 'known killer' theory doesn't stand up. They would have picked up something by now about a conflict in Deborah's life. That leaves a stranger. And yet any person who could commit such a ferocious attack would surely have committed other crimes, perhaps not murders, but offences for which at some point he would have been detained. A swab would have been taken. Still the DNA profile has yielded nothing. 'He may be dead,' Chamberlain says. Dickie Bird desperately wants to give the Linsleys an answer. 'When I went to see them I could see it on Marguerite's face,' he says to me. 'It's like it happened yesterday.' At their comfortable semi-detached house in Bromley, Arthur and Marguerite Linsley take me through the early days of the aftermath: the expectation that the murderer would be caught, that the justice system would kick in, that there would be a conclusion. Instead came only disillusion. 'Right from the beginning, we thought it was a stranger,' Marguerite says, 'but the police followed a set pattern working outwards from family and friends. I wanted them to take blood from all the men in Orpington but they said it was too expensive.' Then there was the detachment of most of the officers involved. 'I got a bit cross with the first lot because they said we mustn't get emotionally involved,' says Marguerite. 'Debbie died over 14 years ago,' Arthur says, 'and back then the victim's families were a bloody nuisance who got in the way, so they drip-fed us information as they felt necessary.' There were good officers, they say. But there would also be silences. At one point, the senior investigating officer retired and they weren't told. They had no idea who was in charge of the case. Arthur was an insurance broker before he retired. Marguerite, the more watchful of the two, was a DSS fraud investigator. Both know about police processes and systems, and what they didn't know they have taught themselves. They even developed a correspondence with a double murderer, who told them about a ruse used by prisoners to buck the sensitivity of DNA profiling. 'Prisoners spit into each others' mouths just before DNA swabs are taken,' Marguerite explains to me. 'It contaminates any samples.' This is the kind of expertise you develop when your daughter is murdered. 'It didn't strike me until after six months that they probably wouldn't get anyone,' Marguerite says. 'My opinion is that if you can't bring her back there's no point.' She doesn't relish the prospect of an arrest and any trial that might follow, the dark journey through so much history at the end of which her daughter would still be dead. But they are pleased that the case is being reviewed. Chamberlain and Bird are, the Linsleys say, good men. 'We were very lucky to get someone as diligent as Keith,' Arthur says. 'I told them I was really grateful,' Marguerite agrees, 'because it meant that they remembered her.' I ask her how she feels about the theory that Deborah's killer may be dead. She may not welcome the idea of a trial but death would be too easy an escape. 'People tell me to get rid of my anger,' Marguerite says. 'But I'm staying angry. I have a right to be angry.' In Hammersmith, on the other side of London, another angry mother is trying to cope with the loss of a daughter. Zaklina Koneva and her two children came to Britain from Macedonia in 1995. She wanted to be with her husband, Trajce, who had fled the country a few years ear lier to escape conscription into the Yugoslav army. On 22 May 1997 at 4.20pm, her 12-year-old daughter Katerina arrived home from school alone. Ten minutes later, Trajce came back and found the front doors to the house and to their first-floor flat open. Upstairs, the living-room door was pushed shut and, looking underneath, he could see something leaning against it. Thinking he was being burgled, he ran downstairs to see a man in his late thirties jumping from the window. He chased him for half a mile until the sus pect stopped a woman in her car at knife point, stole the vehicle and drove to Shepherd's Bush where he abandoned it. When Trajce returned to the house, he found his daughter dead. Katerina had been strangled. I am told this story by Detective Chief Inspector Norman McKinlay, the officer tasked by the Murder Review Group with reinvestigating the case. DCI McKinlay is a veteran officer with experience of cold cases. In August 2001, he was responsible for putting away Anthony Ruark for the murder of his lover, Jacqueline Poole, 18 years earlier. McKinlay started reinvestigating the case on his own initiative. He got a profile from some ancient DNA at the murder scene, put it on the database and then achieved a hit when Ruark was picked up for a minor theft in 2000. It is testament to what DNA can do, rather than what the MRG has so far achieved. In the Koneva case, DNA tests were performed on large amounts of material found at the scene but without result. Instead, they have had to rely on two fingerprints left on the window frame. Today, number-crunching computers make it possible to cross-check prints with millions of other samples. The prints from Katerina's crime scene have been put on databases here and in 75 other countries but to no avail. The murder was also featured on Crimewatch , but nothing came of it. The case has now been 'put away' until a time when, DCI McKinlay hopes, the fingerprints yield a hit. It is frustrating because he can see the effect the whole tragedy has had. Zaklina and Trajce are now divorced. No visitor to the new flat in Hammersmith where Zaklina now lives with her 12-year-old son, Christian, can escape the impact of her daughter's murder. On a sideboard in the living-room is an extraordinary still life. Some of it is obvious: framed pictures of Katerina and a burning candle. Other things - the Barbie and Ken dolls in their wrappings, the ornate Christmas cards - are less so. 'Every Christmas and every birthday I buy presents for her,' she says. With the passage of time, the collection is growing, from the sideboard to the piano to the cabinet. Each year she also buys her daughter another ring, which she wears herself. 'I have five rings now,' she says. 'I talk to her every day. We say goodnight to our children, don't we, so I always say goodnight to my daughter.' Like the Linsleys, Zaklina was positive at first that there would be a result. 'They were so confident,' she says of the police. 'And there was so much information, so many witnesses.' But events moved on and so did the media. Two months after the murder, Princess Diana was killed in Paris. After that, she says, no one was interested in Katerina any more. Two years later, Jill Dando was killed and the senior investigating officer, Hamish Campbell, was moved over to that case. 'That was when I felt the investigation was over,' she says. 'The police stopped making calls. I felt very angry. It was like there were people who were more famous than my daughter. Equal justice was not being done.' According to DCI McKinlay, the murder of Katerina Koneva is unique: children have been killed outside their homes by strangers and inside their homes by people they knew, but not inside their homes by strangers. A psychological profile was drawn up and much made of the sexual gratification the killer was probably seeking, but it got them nowhere. 'Mr McKinlay came before Christmas to say he couldn't do anything more,' she says. 'For me, it was a shock. Very hard. It felt like I had lost my child forever. Before that I had hope, that somehow some questions will be answered.' I ask her what she thinks of the killer. She says: 'I want him to be in the darkness as I am in the darkness.' This is the reality of murder review. Forensic science has made great promises and it has delivered on some of them. The newspapers are peppered with stories about blood samples giving up their DNA secrets decades after the death of the victim. The Metropolitan Police insist the Murder Review Group has DNA profiles on a raft of ancient murder cases; that it is just a matter of time before one of them throws up a hit. Earlier this month, they even announced they were reopening 1,500 rape cases going back to 1987, because of improvements in DNA techniques. But for the parents of Deborah and Katerina, those advances in science are only so many broken promises. Their daughters are dead and nobody has been called to account. It is left to determined men such as Keith Chamberlain and Dickie Bird and Norman McKinlay to ensure that the case is never closed. That is all they ask. Can DNA track down their murderers?Keith Lyon, died 1967 Twelve-year-old Keith Lyon's body was found on a bridlepath in the Happy Valley near Brighton in 1967. He had been stabbed. In November last year, workmen renovating the basement of Brighton police station came across a locked room, inside which was the blood-stained knife and other items from the scene. The forgotten clues are now being tested to see if the killer's DNA can be isolated. Genette Tate, died 1978 Thirteen-year-old Genette Tate disappeared while doing her paper round in the Devon village of Aylesbeare in 1978. Her body was never recovered but police are now testing her bicycle for possible DNA samples which might lead them to the killer. Yiannoulla Yianni, died 1982 Seventeen-year-old Greek Cypriot Yiannoulla Yianni was assaulted and killed at her home in Hampstead, north London, in 1982. Advances in forensic science have enabled police to obtain what they have described as 'fresh clues' from items at the murder scene. They are now trying to track down 900 people who were spoken to during the original murder inquiry. Sandra Phillips, died 1985 Two men were originally convicted of the beating, sexual assault and murder of Sandra Phillips in Swansea in 1985 but were later freed by the court of appeal. The new investigation team is looking to DNA for fresh leads. Karen Hadaway and Nicola Fellows, died 1986 While a man did stand trial for the murders of the two nine-year-old girls in Wild Park, Brighton in 1986, he was acquitted by the jury. Police are now using new forensic techniques to see if they can isolate samples of the murderer's DNA from a sweatshirt linked to the girls. Penny Bell, died 1991 Penny Bell, a businesswoman, was stabbed 50 times while sitting in her blue Jaguar, parked behind a leisure centre in Greenford, west London. Blood stains from the scene are being examined for DNA leads. Rachel Nickell, died 1992 There were no blood, saliva, skin tissue or hair samples found at the site of the murder of Rachel Nickell on Wimbledon Common in 1992. However, with DNA profiling techniques becoming increasingly sensitive, items of her clothing are believed to be checked regularly to see whether they might contain tiny samples of alien DNA that less sophisticated tests had not previously been able to isolate. Jean Bradley, died 1993 Jean Bradley was getting into her car by Acton Town Tube station in west London when she was stabbed 30 times. Again blood samples are being DNA tested for profiles that do not belong to Ms Bradley.