A top Royal Naval officer who quit his post as the Queen's harbourmaster after being charged with downloading indecent images of children from the internet, yesterday admitted that he enjoyed fantasies of women and children wrestling but denied he had knowingly searched for or stored illegal images of underage children on his computer.Appearing at Portsmouth magistrates court accused of 12 charges of making indecent images of children and a further 11 charges of possessing indecent images, Commander Tom Herman, 48, said that since his arrest last November he had been "ashamed, humiliated and embarrassed in a way that is hard to comprehend"."For as long as I can remember I have been interested in pictures of women wrestling and boxing," he told the court. "Many men have such fantasies ... It has never detracted from the sex life I have enjoyed with my wife for 20 years." He said that he had been shocked when police presented him with images retrieved from his computer hard drive of underage girls in provocative poses. An examination of Cmdr Herman's computer by Ministry of Defence police demonstrated that the images, some of which showed girls as young as 11 exposing their backsides and underwear, had been downloaded on November 14, nine days before the raid on his home in Fareham, Hampshire. Forensic tests also showed Cmdr Herman had scanned a total of at least six sites between December 2003 and last November with names like "Tessa-model.net" and "Abbi-model.net". Prior to clicking on the sites he had also entered the search term "No nude preteens" into Google. But when police put it to him that he had deliberately trawled the internet for sites featuring underage models he claimed to be unable to recall the sites or how they had come to be stored in his internet cache. In court Cmdr Herman said he had simply been using "lateral" search terms to identify sites which might contain his favoured wrestling pictures and that after scanning each site and determining it did not contain material he was interested in, he moved "quickly on". "In my head I was not searching for indecent pictures of children. I was skimming - moving at speed through pages containing multiple images." He added that the indecent images may have been stored automatically by his internet browser. He said the only images he remembered saving were five showing women and children in wrestling poses which were not the subject of any charges. He also denied using special file erasing software found on his computer to delete illegal images. As Queen's harbourmaster, Cmdr Herman, who has three grown-up children, had been closely involved in the planning for this summer's celebrations marking the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Trafalgar. He quit his post in February to prepare for the trial after pleading not guilty to an initial 19 charges of making indecent images and 168 possession charges. After reviewing the images yesterday, District Judge John Wollard reduced the charges to 23. However, he drew attention to a photograph of a young girl which appeared to show "part of her genitalia". Making indecent images of children carries a maximum 10-year sentence. Possessing indecent images could lead to five years in prison. The trial continues.