The muffled sound you can hear is that of beleagured record company executives, and their counterparts in film and television boardrooms, cheering this morning's headlines about leaked government plans to take a hardline on illegal downloads. They would be wise, however, to leave the cork in the champagne bottle for now.An industry that has at every turn bungled and botched its attempts to stem the flood of illegal downloads unleashed since the rise to prominence of Napster at the turn of the century believes it may finally have found a solution.Increased broadband penetration, the continuing move to link the PC to the television and ever-increasing download speeds (Virgin Media is currently trumpeting its new 50Mb service) mean the Hollywood studios and TV giants are now at the crunch point faced by the music industry eight years ago.A whole generation are growing up believing that free music, movies and television programmes are their birthright. They are happy to shell out for gig tickets and T-shirts but baulk at paying a penny for music or, increasingly, TV programmes and films. In truth, the leaked details of next week's positioning paper (not, as reported, a green paper) represent a restating of the existing position. Last year's Gowers review of copyright in the digital age similarly called on ISPs and the media industry to come to a voluntary agreement and warned of legislation if they could not. The idea is not a new one: for the last year the record labels and Hollywood studios have been campaigning intensively for internet service providers to monitor their customer's usage and cut them off if they are downloading copyrighted content. U2's manager Paul McGuinness last month backed calls from international trade body the IFPI for legislation to tackle the problem, blaming the woes of the music industry on the west coast technology "hippies" who had conspired to devalue music. Their thinking seems sound in arguing that a typical 14-year-old My Chemical Romance fan is far more likely to fear the social stigma and parental backlash of the imminent threat of having their web connection taken away than the remote prospect of a court summons landing on the doormat. Privately, they accept there will always be a hardcore of hackers and computer-literate downloaders who will try and get around any restriction by masking their IP address and other means. But they hope the threat of disconnection would force the vast majority of consumers to think twice before downloading illegally and force them to go down legal routes such as the iTunes music store instead. Four of the biggest ISPs - BT, Tiscali, Orange and Virgin Media - have been in negotiations for around six months to come to a voluntary agreement. But not only do they still remain wary of establishing a precedent in taking responsibility for the actions of their subscribers, but there are sticking points over how disconnections will be enforced and who will arbitrate if a downloader is found to have been piggybacking on a neighbour's wi-fi connection. Yet there is general agreement that something must be done and some argue that legislation is preferable because it will ensure a level playing field in compelling all ISPs to comply rather than putting those who refuse at a competitive advantage. Several things have changed to make what once seemed an unlikely prospect a reality. Nicolas Sarkozy wasted little time in introducing a similar law in France, providing a workable model for other governments around the world. Around 95% of traffic at night is believed to be over peer to peer filesharing networks - much of it transferring pirated content. With the huge upsurge in data traffic generated by the popularity of video sites like Joost and the BBC's iPlayer, it is in the ISPs interests to look for ways of freeing up their networks. And technology has also moved on. Virgin Media acting chief executive Neil Berkett earlier this month spoke of rather disturbingly named "packet sniffing" technology can accurately determine exactly what their customers are downloading. Aside from the privacy questions of examining just what people are watching and listening to, there is the dilemma of what constitutes an illegally pirated file. Music tracks and recently released Hollywood films may seem pretty straightforward, but what about a BBC programme from the iPlayer that has had its copy protection removed? And how exactly will it work in practice? If you have your account blocked by one provider, are you allowed to sign up with another? With a growing emphasis on digital learning and narrowing the digital divide, is it fair to penalise the siblings of those who transgress by denying them an internet connection too? The other point is a cultural one. Having accepted there is little point in demonising their potential customers by pursuing them through the courts, will pursuing them in this way make them any more amenable to the media giants who have in many cases not yet come up with attractive legal alternatives? And despite improved detection technology, experts say it remains impossible to say with complete certainty that someone is downloading an illegal file, particularly as some traffic over P2P networks remains perfectly legitimate. Despite the detail in this morning's report in the Times suggesting the new regime would be based on the French "three strikes and you're out" model, Whitehall sources say next week's document will be short on detail beyond restating the threat of legislation if the preferred option of a voluntary agreement can't be reached. A consultation paper to be released in the spring will go into more detail. The initiative should also be viewed in the wider context of the government's willingness to legislate the internet. The earlier position that it was unregulatable and beyond national boundaries is giving way in a number of areas, from content regulation to gambling and copyright, to a belief that attempts must be made to at least try and place some regulatory framework around what is becoming the main conduit into our homes for entertainment, information and services.