According to press reports, Weymouth council plans to close its specialist refuge service for women and children in favour of an outreach service for both men and women. But generic one-size-fits-all services aren't necessarily best suited to victims of domestic abuse, and such an approach rings alarm bells.We don't know exactly what sort of outreach service the council is proposing, but at Women's Aid, research and experience tell us that some victims will always require refuge provision along with the safety and support work that a specialist service provides. It is not clear how Weymouth will provide this if its refuge service is closed.Has the council done a proper assessment of the needs of male and female victims in their area? Does their gender equality scheme address this and have they carried out a gender impact assessment of these proposals? This information does not appear to be available on the council's website.Domestic violence is so common that there is undoubtedly the need for specialist services in every local area. The question is how should local councils ensure they meet the different needs of male and female victims? Emerging evidence from practice shows that men and women survivors have different needs and these also differ according to sexuality, race, disability etc. Some men who present as survivors are in fact perpetrators, and careful assessment is required to identify the primary aggressor. It seems that heterosexual men prefer outreach service provision and gay men are more likely to need to actually leave their homes in order to be safe. More research is required. Unlike women (whether heterosexual or lesbian), heterosexual men have not expressed the need for same-sex staff, whereas gay men are more likely to prefer a same-sex support worker. Men need services that:• Are in a separate location from women's services, with different staff.• Use a robust assessment tool to discern between perpetrators and victims.• Meet the needs of heterosexual, gay, bisexual and transgender survivors who require different responses.The fact that some men experience domestic violence has resulted in government initiatives, and consequently some policymakers and public-sector funders, developing a gender-neutral approach to domestic violence; ie the belief that domestic violence occurs "equally" to men and women and is not a result of the historical inequality of power relations between men and women. This contradicts research evidence. The UK government signed up to the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in 1995 that states that violence against women is causal and contributory to women's inequality and is now developing a national violence against women strategy. But some local areas have chosen generic service providers over specialist domestic violence services, which have now lost contracts and are closing down. I understand that some generic service providers work with women and men together and at Women's Aid we have concerns about this. Unless there is adequate assessment of men presenting to support services as survivors, it is potentially dangerous.Every local area needs safe separate services for women and men that meet the national service standards for domestic and sexual violence. A new piece of work is under way to identify the specific requirements of different male survivors. This will address the recent experiences and knowledge of the Men's Advice line, the Dyn project and other services that work with men such as the Nottinghamshire Domestic Violence Forum and the Gemini project. In order for women survivors to feel physically and emotionally safe, they require easy access to women-only services.