Ian Huntley today lost his temper in the witness box at his Old Bailey murder trial as he was accused of holding Holly Wells under the water in his bath and watching her drown.Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, told Mr Huntley instinct would have demanded that he try to rescue Holly had she fallen into the bath by accident.Mr Huntley has told the court how he tried to "collect his thoughts" and was "frozen by panic" after, he alleges, the 10-year-old fell into the water in a series of accidents.Mr Latham told Mr Huntley that he had no need to collect his thoughts. He responded angrily, saying: "In these circumstances, it is very rational to know what you are doing. In those circumstances it is not so rational. Believe me - I know."In the most highly-charged exchanges of the 21-day trial Mr Latham said: "You can get angry, can't you, Mr Huntley?" Mr Huntley replied: "Yes." The QC continued: "You just lost your temper with me, didn't you?" Mr Huntley said: "That's because you ... you have your opinion."Mr Latham repeated: "You have just lost your temper with me, haven't you?" Mr Huntley replied: "Yes."Mr Latham then asked Mr Huntley whether he had lost his temper with either Holly or her friend Jessica Chapman on the evening of August 4 2002, the Sunday evening when they died. Mr Huntley replied that he had no reason to lose his temper.Earlier, Mr Latham had suggested that Mr Huntley had deliberately lured the two 10-year-old schoolgirls into his Soham home.The QC said that Mr Huntley had wanted to get Holly into his bedroom, and had then "wanted her dead". He held her under the water, ignoring Jessica's screams, and watched her drown before turning his attention to Jessica, the lawyer said."Holly drowned in the bath because you wanted her dead," Mr Latham said. Mr Huntley replied: "I did not want her dead."Mr Latham told him: "The only way that child would have drowned in the bath is if you were holding her under the water." Mr Huntley responded: "I was not holding her.""Jessica was screaming because you were murdering Holly - that's the truth, isn't it?" asked Mr Latham. Mr Huntley said: "No."Mr Latham said: "That's the only reason she was screaming rather than helping her friend, isn't it?" Mr Huntley replied: "No, that's not true."The defendant denied all Mr Latham's suggestions, saying that he had not lured the girls into his home, had not wanted to get them into his bedroom, and had not held Holly under the water.Under cross-examination, Mr Huntley today said that one of the girls died "as a result of my inability to act, and the other died as a direct result of my actions".Mr Latham had earlier turned to the events leading up to the girls' deaths, accusing Mr Huntley of inventing his defence after a "cold-blooded analysis" of the evidence against him.Mr Huntley said that he had invited Holly and Jessica into his house because he saw that Holly had a nosebleed. He denied telling the girls that his then girlfriend Maxine Carr, 26, a teaching assistant at their school, was in the house.He also said that the bath in which he claims Holly accidentally drowned had between six and eight inches of water in it, and not 18 inches, as had previously been suggested by his defence team.Mr Huntley, 29, was facing cross-examination after yesterday telling the court that his mind had temporarily blanked out his memory of the girls dying in his house.He said that a conversation with his mother on October 23 last year - secretly taped while he was in prison - was based on what he truly believed had happened. The defendant told Lynda Huntley that he remembered the girls leaving his house alive, and believed that they were then followed by a stranger who could have killed them.Mr Latham suggested that the account was "an invention" based on "a cold-blooded analysis of the prosecution case".Mr Huntley insisted that it was based on what he believed had happened prior to his memory returning after an attempted suicide in June this year.He denied telling a string of "bare-faced lies" to cover what he had done, but admitted lying to reporters during the investigation into the girls' disappearance in order to put police "off the scent".Mr Huntley admits that the girls died in his house and that he put their bodies into his car and dumped them in the remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, where they were found 13 days later. He denies the double murder.The 29-year-old former caretaker at Soham Village College has pleaded guilty to a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice.Ms Carr denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. The prosecution allege she gave him a false alibi for August 4 last year, the day the girls died.The trial continues.