Your article (Police attacked as London burns, 8 August) once again brings into question the independence of the IPCC. The IPCC's initial report claimed that there was "an apparent exchange of fire". Much of this assumption came from the fact that a bullet had lodged in a police radio – raising speculation that the police officer might have been fired at from the cab occupied by Mr Duggan.  Illustration:Gary KempstonHowever, the same article continues: "Initial ballistics tests suggest that the bullet lodged in the officer's radio during the incident in Tottenham was police issue." This reminded me of the case of Ian Tomlinson, who died at the G20 protests in 2009. You reported then that IPCC investigators decided there was no evidence of police wrongdoing in the death of Ian Tomlinson (Police memos reveal IPCC haste to declare Ian Tomlinson death an accident, 7 August 2009).Is it any wonder that the IPCC comes to such speedy conclusions when it declares on its website it is "working towards improving confidence in the police"? Surely the IPCC role should be, as an independent investigator, to reveal the truth?Graham HodginLondon• Your editorial casually remarks that it is unsurprising that police accounts of the death of Mark Duggan are disbelieved because previous Met accounts "have proved to be unreliable … or to be fabrications" (8 August). How is it that we can have a police force that cannot be trusted to tell the truth, and that this state of affairs is just shrugged off by all and sundry? If MPs can be forced to clean up ancient practices associated with parliamentary expenses and if the tabloids can be obliged to cease grubby activities like phone hacking, the next major stone to turn over is undoubtedly the police, specifically the Met – and its cosy relationship with the IPCC and CPS, which invariably fail to find it in the public interest to pursue charges against the police in even the most egregious cases.Andy SmithKingston upon Thames, Surrey• As predicted by Alexandra Topping (Where the cuts fall, the gangs flourish, 30 July), summer violence has begun. All it needed was a spark. This was supplied by the police shooting Mark Duggan. Her article included a statement from Kevin, a former youth worker, who said "reaching young people in gangs is difficult, time-consuming and often intimidating". When I was asked as a youth worker to work in some of Liverpool's inner-city sink housing estates, where the 1981 riots took place, I realised that if success was to be achieved it was necessary to work with the whole community, thus street-elected neighbourhood adult and youth councils were developed. The residents took control of their neighbourhoods, transforming them into caring communities. The power of the youth gangs gradually diminished. These lessons have not been learned by government.The street riots we are now experiencing are the outcome of failed government policies over decades that have allowed poor conditions to fester. Now, with high unemployment and cuts in public expenditure, the estates are being allowed to rot. This situation can only get worse. Organised neighbourhood communities are able to provide daily support for all residents, including children whose lives have been damaged.Teddy GoldLondon• When I moved to Tottenham 30 years ago, it was a skilled working-class area. The Thatcher recession of the 80s knocked the stuffing out of it, as factory after factory closed. Thatcher's policies were continued by Major, Blair and Brown, with occasional bits of sticking plaster applied in the form of government schemes whereby poor areas fought each other for meagre funds to provide services that rich areas got as of right. Unemployment in parts of Tottenham is now 18%. In the same borough of Haringey – in Crouch End, Muswell Hill and Highgate – where houses cost millions, the rate is 5%. A microcosm of the UK in one London borough. Thatcher knew what her policies would do. One of her first acts was to increase police numbers and pay. The Con Dems are so stupid they are cutting police numbers. Welcome to the long, hot summer.Richard RossLondon• I am appalled by what happened on Saturday night – I mean the predictable demonising of possibly the friendliest place in London, my home of 12 years. The looting and arson of buildings were terrible and idiotic acts, the anger against police sadly predictable after recent and long-standing tensions. But this media gabble about a stricken community bears no resemblance to my Tottenham. I saw the incidents after spending a beautiful day with a community of 200 artists, half a mile from the High Road.I spent the next day at a community garden celebrating the life of a much missed residents' activist, chewing over what we can do to help in this difficult time. And we will help. This is the Tottenham that deserves celebration – rich of soul and heart.Ruth AllenWards Corner Community Coalition• The police response in Tottenham was too slow; in the student protests, disproportionately strong; in the UK Uncut occupation of Fortnum's, deceptive; in the News of the World unravelling, probably corrupt. It would seem that, 182 years after Robert Peel's formation of the first modern police force, it is time to have a discussion: what do we want our police force to do? More importantly, what do we want our police force to be? Who should it serve? Instead of looking for a new head of the Met who is hard/soft/old-style/new-style, perhaps it is useful to consider, was "modern" policing something that was better suited to the 19th and 20th centuries, and if so, what is it we want, and need, today?Judith FlandersLondon• Tottenham's uprising is a serious warning to the police, government and local authority.First, our collective memory does not forget the history of police killings – of Cynthia Jarrett that started the Broadwater Farm fightback against police harassment under the sus laws in 1985, or the stitch-up that led to the imprisonment of Winston Sillcott. Nor will we forget the years that Roger Sylvester's family went through, failing to get an answer as to why their son had been killed after eight policemen jumped on him outside his house. And David Lammy MP (Comment, 8 October) should not forget that all the peaceful action that took place to get answers to Sylvester's death – including 1,000 people marching through Tottenham, with Stephen Lawrence's father Neville at the head – failed to get a satisfactory explanation for his death.Second, go through Tottenham on any given day and those being stopped by the police will be young black men. They don't forget.Third, Tottenham is very poor. The cuts are hitting us very hard and, in particular, there is mass unemployment among young people. Government cuts in youth funding and the education maintenance allowance leave many with little hope.The tragedy is that our own community gets trashed to make our rulers sit up and take notice – but do they listen?Alan WattsTottenham• These riots are yet another example of the despicable behaviour of young people these days. I suggest we punish them by removing all of their privileges – youth clubs, benefits, college courses, the lot. Maybe that'll teach 'em. Nick NuttgensSheffield