The sister of Lucie Blackman, the British bar hostess killed in Japan in 2000, attempted suicide last year because she could no longer cope with her grief, her father said yesterday.In a statement to the Tokyo district court, Tim Blackman said his youngest daughter, Sophie, 25, had tried to kill herself soon after her sister's ashes were interred in England last March.He said Sophie, "who had amazed the world by her strength and courage" during the seven-month search for Lucie, had been left severely traumatised and was receiving in-patient care at a psychiatric unit.Lucie Blackman, a former British Airways flight attendant from Sevenoaks, Kent, had been working as a hostess in a Tokyo nightclub when she disappeared in July 2000 after agreeing to go for a drive with a customer. Joji Obara, a wealthy property developer, is accused of drugging the 21-year-old, then raping her and cutting up her body with a chainsaw and burying her remains after she reacted badly to the drugs.In February 2001 her decomposed remains were found encased in concrete in a cave near Mr Obara's luxury beachside apartment in a village south of Tokyo.Mr Obara, 52, has also been charged with seven other rapes and with causing the drug-related death of an Australian bar hostess in 1992. He denies the charges and yesterday refused to attend his trial for the second time in a week.Mr Blackman, at times wiping away tears, described his daughter's death as "the most terrible, terrible event" of his life. "The shock and trauma it has caused me has changed me and has changed the rest of my life." He said he could not banish from his mind images of his daughter's dismembered body, and that he frequently broke down in tears in public. "Her death has left me shattered, empty and numb - as her precious life has been torn away from me."Mr Blackman's son, Rupert, 22, had been "tortured and damaged" by the death and required "constant medication and medical attention to try and stabilise his emotions", while struggling to move on, Mr Blackman said. "I not only have to contend with the death of Lucie, but the terrible and tragic damage to both my other children as a constant reminder of this terrible crime."He urged the court to impose the harshest possible sentence - life imprisonment - on Mr Obara, saying anything less would be an insult to his daughter's memory. "The terrible, terrible acts played out on my beautiful girl are acts of a disgusting creature, a filthy animal preying on beauty and vulnerability," he said. "This monster has shown not a single tear of contrition, shame or guilt for the perversion or crime against humanity."Quite simply, my beautiful daughter would be alive today if she had not been preyed upon by this creature."Mr Blackman said the guilt he felt from having been unable to help his daughter when she most needed him would stay with him for the remainder of his life. "Only death will release me from this pain. Only knowing that when I die I will feel her arms around my neck again helps me live my life."The hearing continues.