There were two obvious reactions when Rachida Dati was appointed as French justice minister: delight and apprehension.Dati had fought her way to the top despite modest origins as one of 12 children growing up in a poor immigrant family in Châlons-sur-Saône. So anyone interested in building a decent society, in which merit is rewarded, surely shared my delight when Nicolas Sarkozy named her in his first cabinet. She had clearly impressed him as an adviser at the interior ministry, and she proved an able spokeswoman for his presidential campaign.The parallel sense of apprehension had nothing to do with ethnic background; Dati is unquestionably a shining role model for France's large, undervalued north African population. It was inspired by the simple concern that minister of justice, a big and potentially troublesome debut in senior government for anyone, would be tougher still for Dati, because the spotlight would shine all the more brightly upon her. This may be unfair, but it is also a reality of modern society. Even in France, with its traditional restraints, politicians are increasingly treated as celebrities.Whether we might have expected her introduction to high office to become quite so rocky, quite so early, is another matter. The prime minister, François Fillon, was right - if somewhat optimistic - to appeal for her to be treated like any other minister, which would allow her to "show her talent in an efficient way". But he was talking nonsense when claiming there was a "campaign" against her.At a time when she is pressing parliament to accept a crackdown on juvenile and repeat offenders, it seems perfectly legitimate for the press to draw attention to criminal elements in her own family. She is not remotely to blame if two brothers have been in trouble for drug dealing, but it is hard to think of any free society where the juxtaposition would not be made. Indeed, it may be all the more to Dati's credit that she, by contrast, has made so much of her life.Nor can Dati be held personally responsible for two extraordinary instances of courtroom violence - a woman's knife attack on the judge in a child custody case and the suicide of a child sex abuser who smuggled a gun into court and turned it on himself when sentenced. But they happened on her watch. If you add the escape by helicopter of a jailed killer, one who happened to have a known penchant for airborne breakouts, it amounts to an alarming run of calamities.However new she is to government, Dati has to learn that when things go wrong in her domain, the buck will tend to stop at her door. What of the resignations of senior aides? These things happen, she argues, and she is right. Even when Le Monde talks of her being "very demanding and at times brutal with her direct collaborators" it chooses language many in France would regard as complimentary if used about a male minister.Yet none of these setbacks can seriously be advanced as resignation matters. If some socialists hissed Dati as she presented her bill yesterday, I heard another saying she should be judged on the quality and results of her work, not on her personality, ethnic origins or family. Then let us consider her work so far. Her projet de loi on crime has plenty of critics. French television last night highlighted worries in some quarters over minimum jail terms for recidivist criminals by running a frankly incongruous report on the "three strikes and you're out" approach in America.But whereas nearly everyone wants to stamp out crime, there isn't the least hint in the Dati bill of crazed Californian-style 50-year sentences for stealing three videos if - heaven forbid - you've been up to the same sort of thing twice before. What she proposes is altogether more measured and civilised: a repeat offender facing a minimum of about a third of the maximum sentence for his or her crime. The aim is to introduce a proper deterrent and answer public demands for less mollycoddling of criminals, but without crushing individuals in trouble. If it seems to work, that will mean a whole lot more to the French than the dodgy exploits of her brothers, or tensions in her office.Sarkozy knows all about bumpy rides, but I expect him to help Dati through her sticky period. For one thing, he needs her to succeed, as a vindication of his admirably broad-based selection of a government team. And for another, he is likely to judge her first month in office as marred not by her own weaknesses but by a rotten spell of luck.