The jury in the Soham murder trial today visited the ditch where the bodies of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman were found in August last year.Richard Latham QC, prosecuting, pointed out to jurors the spot where the bodies were found. He gestured to the place where, he says, a few strands of Jessica's hair were once snagged on a branch. "And the bodies, therefore, were found just down here," he said, gesturing to a 6ft deep ditch in a field near Lakenheath, Suffolk. The jurors gathered around the irrigation ditch, which had been stripped of its foliage during the police investigation but which now had a few nettles and ferns in its base. A few moments earlier, the two minutes silence for Remembrance day had passed as the jurors made their way up the rutted track leading to the isolated spot where the prosecution alleges Ian Huntley dumped the 10-year-olds' bodies. As the jury of seven women and five men arrived at 10.44am at the track known as Common Drove, leading to the remote ditch, a single posy of flowers marked the spot where the track began. A card attached to the ring of fabric red and white roses said: "Soham's Roses. Remembrance Forever. God have you in his keeping, we have you in our hearts, our thoughts are with your families at this time." Mr Latham had spoken briefly to the jurors at the end of the track. He said: "Members of the jury, this is the mouth of Common Drove. We are going to walk up the Drove and you can see in the distance where the tree line starts. "It is just past the tree line where the bodies were found." He pointed out the sluice gate, which controlled levels of water in the ditch, and also the distant spire of Wangford church. The prosecution alleges that Mr Huntley's father, Kevin Huntley, lived in a cottage beside the church, less than half a mile from the spot where the girls' remains were found, and that Mr Huntley would therefore have known the area well.The jury left Soham Village college at 9.52am this morning after being addressed by Mr Latham. He detailed the route they would take and reminded them that the prosecution did not suggest it was the exact route they believed Mr Huntley had taken, but one of a number of potential routes between Soham and Lakenheath. The jurors were driven through the fenland countryside in a coach, accompanied by a convoy of police motorcycle outriders, the judge's silver Rover and two minibuses carrying lawyers and journalists. Barely a single person witnessed the sight as the convoy passed by. Mr Latham suggested to the jury last week that there were "endless" places on the 40-minute route where two bodies could have been dumped in the open by a man gripped by panic. But the prosecution alleged that Huntley had in mind a "clever" hiding spot where there was a "substantial possibility" that the bodies would never be found. The prosecution claimed that Mr Huntley, who denies murdering the two girls, knew the area well. His grandmother Lily Gollings lived in nearby Lakenheath, Suffolk, and his father Kevin had lived at the house in Wangford, Mr Latham said. Mr Huntley himself had an interest in plane spotting and the US air force base at Lakenheath was nearby, the prosecution added. As the jurors gathered at Soham Village college this morning, life was slowly returning to normal in the girls' home town. Shops were open for business again and people were out on the streets, talking about yesterday's visit, when the jurors retraced the girls' final known steps. Mr Latham told the jury last week that the journey to Lakenheath would give them a better idea of the terrain and distances involved, even though it was not intended as an exact recreation of Mr Huntley's alleged route. He outlined the route north out of Soham on the Great Fen Road, on to the B1104, B1382 and A101 before taking tiny roads to the north of Lakenheath. The convoy reached the small Suffolk town at 10.37am. It slowed as it passed the warden-controlled bungalow of Mrs Gollings, Mr Huntley's grandmother, in Quayside Court. A single policeman stood outside the sheltered complex to mark it out, as his colleagues had done at Holly and Jessica's homes yesterday.Mr Huntley, 29, the former caretaker at Soham Village college, denies the double murder of the 10-year-olds girls. The trial continues.