Police were hunting the killer of a nurse last night who was stabbed to death in a "frenzied attack" in the grounds of the Essex hospital where she worked.Cheryl Moss, 33, was attacked yesterday morning after she left the main building of St George's hospital in Hornchurch for a cigarette. Colleagues found her collapsed and bleeding behind the hospital in a parkland area popular with staff taking breaks. She received emergency treatment from an air ambulance team, but was pronounced dead at the scene.Mrs Moss, who was married with no children, had been a nurse at the hospital for more than 10 years. Speaking outside the hospital last night, Detective Superintendent Dick Langley of the Metropolitan police said: "There are a number of stab wounds on her body. It would appear at this stage that it was a frenzied attack on her body."He confirmed that no murder weapon had been recovered and there was no evidence of a sexual attack. A postmortem examination is due to take place today. Mr Langley said police were interviewing witnesses and examining CCTV images for any indication of what had led up to the attack. He added that police were keeping a "totally open mind" as to the motive.Hospital staff, some in tears, were ushered out of hospital grounds by police. Imelda Distura, 34, a trainee nurse at the site, said: "Everybody is upset ... I am frightened really. We are asking for more security." Children from the hospital creche were collected by their parents as the news of the attack spread. Yesterday evening a man tied a bunch of orange and gold chrysanthemums to the hospital gates. An attached card read: "God bless and keep you, from your colleagues on Canvey Ward X."Ralph McCormack, the chief executive of Havering primary care trust, to which St George's belongs, described Mrs Moss as "very well respected and well known and a well liked individual". He added that she had worked for the trust and its predecessor organisation for nearly 17 years.St George's has specialist departments but no accident and emergency unit. The hospital, a sprawling complex of two-storey, red-brick buildings, was cordoned off by police who had been called to the scene within minutes of the body being found.Extra security staff were brought in to reassure employees and existing security arrangements were being reviewed. Although there is some security control at the front of the hospital, the grounds at the rear are completely open to an expanse of woodland.Janet Davies, the Royal College of Nursing's director of service delivery, said: "This is a shocking and tragic event and the RCN would like to express its deepest sympathy for the family of the nurse."Needless to say, healthcare staff should not have to go to work fearing for their lives and personal safety."Hospital nurses are increasingly under threat of attack. The RCN's research indicates that about a quarter say they have been harassed or assaulted by patients or their relatives in the last 12 months. The research, conducted last year, indicated that 27% of all nurses were physically assaulted during their careers. Nurses working in accident and emergency units were at greatest risk.