Detectives hunting the killer of schoolgirl Milly Dowler are investigating a possible link with a series of vicious attacks on other young women in south-west London, including the murders of French student Amélie Delagrange and 19-year-old Marsha McDonnell.The disclosure came as the Surrey police team working on the Milly murder case, codenamed Operation Ruby, revealed what could be a vital new clue - a red car - which police suspect may have been used in her abduction. Scotland Yard is investigating the murders of Ms Delagrange, 22, battered to death on Twickenham Green last August, and gap-year student Ms McDonnell, killed in nearby Hampton in February 2003. The Metropolitan police inquiry, codenamed Operation Yeaddiss, also includes similar assaults on four other young women in south-west London in the past two-and-a-half years. All the Yeaddiss victims were blonde, and all were struck from behind with a blunt instrument. Just a few days after Amélie was killed, police divers recovered some of her belongings from the River Thames near Walton-on-Thames, where 13-year-old Milly lived, and from where she went missing three years ago next week. Police are not, at this stage, making a formal connection between this series of murders and attacks and Milly's death. But senior officers from the Ruby and Yeaddiss inquiries confirmed yesterday that they are "liaising over possible links". Any breakthroughs could be extremely significant for two high-profile investigations. The inquiry into Milly's murder is the largest of its kind undertaken in Surrey police history. Home-video footage of the teenager dancing round an ironing board was shown repeatedly on national television in the weeks after her disappearance. The murders of Ms Delagrange, a young French student who came to London to improve her English, and Ms McDonnell, and the other attacks, created a climate of fear among women in what was considered a relatively safe corner of the capital. The red Daewoo Nexia - a 1996 N registration - was spotted on the road where Milly, whose real name was Amanda, was last seen alive, walking home from school. The car, which appeared to have very low-slung suspension, was caught on CCTV as it pulled out of the junction of Copenhagen Way and Station Avenue in Walton-on-Thames. On the afternoon of March 21 2002, Milly got off a train from school, and at 4.08pm a friend standing at a bus stop saw her walking down Station Avenue towards her home. This was the last confirmed sighting of her alive. A massive search yielded nothing. But six months later, a couple picking mushrooms in Yateley Heath Woods, near Fleet in Hampshire, about 20 miles from Walton-on-Thames, discovered Milly's body by chance. The red Daewoo was at the junction at about 4.33pm, less than half-an-hour after Milly's friend saw her walking down Station Avenue. Detectives think the car may have been driven by someone who had connections in the neighbourhood at the time of Milly's disappearance. They are appealing for anyone who saw the car in Walton-on-Thames around the period when Milly vanished, or in the Yateley Heath area shortly afterwards, or who knows where it is now, or has any other information, to contact them on 0845 125 2222. Detective Chief Inspector Brian Marjoram, who is heading the murder investigation, said 47 officers and police staff were working on the Milly case, pursuing a number of active leads. Over the past three years, officers have questioned 2,885 people in house-to-house inquiries, taken 4,288 statements - 302 in the past year - and carried out 127 searches. "We've gone to extraordinary lengths to crack this crime and we're determined to do so," said DCI Marjoram. "We've had an overwhelming response from members of the public over the last three years and have been given lots of useful information which has enabled us to pursue and elim inate a large number of lines of inquiry." The other young women attacked in south-west London in the past two-and-a-half years, whose cases are being investigated by the Yeaddiss detectives, are Sonia Salvatierra, 26, assaulted in Twickenham in November 2002; a 17-year-old who is not being named by police, attacked in Strawberry Hill, Richmond, in January 2003; 36-year-old Dawn Brunton, attacked in Hounslow in November 2003; and Edel Harbison, attacked in Twickenham in April last year.