A major criminal network believed to have been involved in arranging more than 300 sham marriages in Britain has been smashed by the Immigration Service, it emerged yesterday.Officers disrupted a number of weddings at a south-west London register office at the weekend, leading to several arrests. At least four people - including the alleged mastermind of the ring and a bride and groom - have been charged. The scam allegedly involved women from the Netherlands who claim to be working in Britain being flown in to marry west African men, exploiting a loophole in the law which allows foreign nationals to stay in the country if married to an EU citizen working here, without being required to show an intention to live together. It is understood the organisers charged up to £10,000 to arrange the ceremonies, paying the "brides" between £1,000 and £2,000. The men and women were thought to be told enough about each other before the ceremony to convince officials that they were having a relationship. The investigation began after authorities noticed a pattern of women flying on single ticket journeys from the Netherlands. At first they were suspected of being drug mules; further investigation revealed the marriage scam. The alleged ringleader, who was arrested in east London, has been charged with two counts of conspiring to defraud the home secretary, two counts of perjury and one count of bigamy. The suspected groom has been charged with perjury and deception and the bride with perjury and attempting to assist a foreign national break British immigration law. Four more people - three men and a woman - were arrested on Sunday and Monday on suspicion of being involved in immigration offences. According to Mark Rimmer, the director of registrars in the north London borough of Brent, more than 10,000 bogus marriages take place for immigration purposes in Britain each year. He estimated that at least 8,000 were in London - one in five of all weddings in the city. "But to be honest that is a conservative estimate," he said. "I know of at least one borough where they thought every other marriage was a sham." New legislation is about to come into force which will require all foreign nationals to get permission from the Home Office before they can get married. Those from outside the European economic area will have to prove that they are in the country legally, and others entering on a "fiance" visa will have to convince officials that the intended marriage is genuine. "What we do not want to happen before the legislation is enforced is an 'end of season sale' scenario, where we get a large number of scam weddings between now and then," Mr Rimmer said. The tell-tale signs of fraudulent marriage include body language and an inability to communicate other than through an interpreter. Couples frequently produce bogus utility bills, bank statements and similar documents, supposedly proving their residence in Britain. The same documents have been seen at different register offices, with the names changed. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said: "These operations are testament to the enormous effort and hard work by the Immigration Service to protect the UK's immigration and marriage laws from abuse by determined criminals."