Police in Northern Ireland last night issued a warning after a firebomb was found in a toy shop in Cookstown, Co Tyrone. The device is believed to have been planted by dissident republicans. An army bomb squad also searched a Tesco store in the town.The Police Service for Northern Ireland said: 'Such devices have the potential to destroy property and endanger lives. Items may be left in garments, soft furnishings or upholstery, and are usually concealed within boxes or other packages. 'Owners and staff must be observant and look out for anything suspicious. Such objects must not be touched.' Cookstown SDLP councillor Tony Quinn condemned the attack on the toy shop, branding it as 'pathetic'.He said: 'Imagine targeting a toy shop of all places. These types of incidents were not acceptable in the past and they will never be accepted now in a society that is moving forward, leaving the type of people who would do this behind.'Thankfully no one was hurt and it is good to see the shop reopened, with kids and their parents inside buying toys and enjoying themselves.'Security sources in Northern Ireland warned last night that a number of republican terror groups were attempting to restart their armed campaigns. On Thursday, the Real IRA left a hoax device on the Belfast to Dublin rail link at Poyntzpass in Co Armagh causing disruption all day to the cross-border service.The targeting of the railway line was timed to coincide with a high-profile US international investment conference which was taking place in Belfast on the same day. It is understood, however, that the firebomb in Cookstown and the warning of devices left at a Tesco store in the town were the work of another republican anti-ceasefire group known as Óglaigh na hÉireann. This organisation was identified in the last Independent Monitoring Commission report as one of the main threats to peace in Northern Ireland. The IMC - the body set up to monitor ceasefires and paramilitary activity - said the terror group is mainly based in Co Tyrone. Although dissident groups remain small in number, according to the IMC they remain a threat. The Real IRA imported a small batch of weapons and explosives into Ireland at the end of last year, garda sources in Dublin say. Contacts with Dublin criminal gangs led to the smuggling of the guns from the former Soviet bloc.A month later the brother of a Real IRA leader was caught buying arms in a 'sting' operation involving a number of police forces and several intelligence agencies across Europe, including MI6. Michael Campbell was arrested in the Lithuanian capital Vilnius in January while allegedly trying to buy arms from police officers posing as arms dealers. At the start of this year a major security operation around Greater Belfast prevented a large bomb from being driven from the Republic into the North. The Real IRA had planned to devastate a superstore belonging to one of the UK's major retail outlets on the edge of Belfast. Early yesterday fire crews were attacked at five locations across Northern Ireland. Stones were thrown in the Galliagh area of Derry and firefighters were targeted on the Woodstock Road in east Belfast.There were further attacks in the Falls Road area of west Belfast, Dixon Park in Bangor, Co Down, and Bawnmore in Newtownabbey.There were no injuries and no damage to vehicles, the fire service said.Belfast Lord Mayor Jim Rodgers said the attacks were appalling and it was only a matter of time before a fire officer was seriously injured.Peter Weir, DUP MLA for North Down, said the Dixon Park incident was not the first act of antisocial behaviour in the area. 'These irresponsible louts have simply demonstrated how low they can stoop by this dangerous attack. Clearly none of them have thought through their actions, and the potential risk to lives,' he said.