A gang of armed "desperadoes" behind a 25-day kidnapping were jailed yesterday for up to 12 and a half years.Javed Mukhtar, a Glasgow shopkeeper, was seized from his home last year, handcuffed, hooded and bundled into a van. He was then driven to Manchester and his family told to pay £2.5m for his release. His ordeal ended when the police swooped on the gang after they had collected the ransom left by an emergency phone booth on the M6 in Lancashire.Detective Superintendent Willie Prendergast, of Strathclyde police, who led the inquiry, said outside the Glasgow high court: "They were being rather naive to believe we had not some handle on this."At the height of the inquiry 800 officers were involved, from Northern Ireland, Greater Manchester, Lancashire , and the Serious Organised Crime Agency. Det Supt Prendergast said it was "by far the longest for a conventional kidnap in the UK".The ringleaders, Darren Wright, 31, a former Royal Marine, and lorry driver Peter Haining, 28, were jailed for 11 years and three months and 12 and a half years respectively. David Smith, 37, got five years and three months, while Ian Rosales, 19, got three years. All hail from Heywood, Greater Manchester.Leslie White, 65, of Craigavon, Co Armagh, who did most of the negotiating from phone boxes in Northern Ireland, was given six years. Craig Adams, 23, of Bury, got four years and 10 months. All six pleaded guilty.Passing sentence, Lord Hodge said the kidnapping had been a "very serious criminal enterprise" which led to a "stressful and prolonged ordeal" for Mr Mukhtar and his family.Det Supt Prendergast said: "This was a pre-planned operation committed by desperadoes armed to the teeth and they were determined they were going to get vast amounts of money. Mr Mukhtar was not physically tortured but the mental strain was phenomenal and the healing process is still not complete."Mr Mukhtar, 58, a devout Muslim and diabetes sufferer, was seized during Ramadan on September 29. Hooded and armed with Russian-made Baikal .38 automatic guns fitted with silencers, Wright and Haining burst into the Mukhtar family home in Glasgow's Crossmyloof district.Wright had told the court his aim had been to kidnap Mr Mukhtar's son, Bilal.The gang had asked for Bilal but did not know what he looked like and seized his father instead. As they escaped, one fired at Bilal, who tried to rescue his father.Mr Mukhtar was driven to Heywood, Manchester, where he was moved around three flats. Smith lived in one of them; Rosales was the guard. He was handcuffed and fed irregularly. "He described this time as an absolutely terrible experience," the judge said.The ransom demands soon arrived at the captive's home and shop in Rutherglen, near Glasgow, but the calls were easily traced to phone boxes in Northern Ireland. White, the court heard, had a string of previous convictions including an eight-year jail term for armed robbery.It was agreed to drop off £400,000 cash in a case on the motorway. Apparently unaware of any police involvement, the gang took the money before midnight at Charnock Richard, Chorley.A few hours later, Mr Mukhtar was freed by his abductors, "scantily dressed", in Warrington. The police then moved in.Detectives remain baffled as to why the family was targeted, because the gang had "scant" associations with Glasgow.During the trial Wright admitted three charges but entered a plea of diminished responsibility, claiming various mental disorders from serving in Afghanistan.