Sion Jenkins appeared close to tears yesterday as he told the Old Bailey how his former wife Lois said their marriage was over after he was arrested for the murder of his foster daughter Billie-Jo Jenkins.On his second day in the witness box at his retrial, the former deputy head teacher told the court Lois Jenkins refused to speak to him when he was released on bail after being questioned. He told the jury: "I wanted to stay together as a family. She wanted to leave me." Billie-Jo Jenkins, 13, was battered to death with a tent peg as she painted the patio doors at the family house in Hastings during a half-term holiday in February 1997. The prosecution alleges that Mr Jenkins killed her after losing his temper and then instigated a shopping trip to buy white spirit to give himself an alibi. Mr Jenkins' voice broke as he told the court he had seen his four natural daughters only six times since the murder. Asked about the first visit, a month after his arrest, which was attended by social workers and police officers, he described Lois as "a shadow person". He said: "She was very rigid and very white and she was very uncommunicative. I tried to put my arm around her. She froze." Asked how his daughters were, he said: "They were lovely." The court heard that Lois later wrote to Mr Jenkins: "Whatever the outcome of the trial, my faith in you has been shattered and I do not believe we will be able to live together as a family afterwards." She has since moved to Tasmania with the couple's four daughters and remarried. Mr Jenkins, 47, spent six years in prison for the murder but was freed on appeal last year. Nicholas Hilliard, for the prosecution, accused Mr Jenkins, who has slumped in the witness box and spoken in a barely audible voice throughout his evidence, of putting on an act. "You are not really giving the jury the real Sion Jenkins, are you?" he told him. "You are quite practised at deceiving people about yourself."Beginning his cross examination, Mr Hilliard detailed the lies Mr Jenkins told in his application for the post of deputy head teacher at William Parker School in Hastings, which included exaggerating his qualifications and pretending he attended Gordonstoun public school. Earlier, Mr Jenkins said he found Billie-Jo stretched out on the patio in a pool of blood after he returned from a shopping trip with his two eldest daughters."The scene was horrendous. Her face was bloody and her forehead was totally misshapen and her eye was swollen." Mr Jenkins told the court he spent only two minutes in the house between returning from a clarinet lesson and driving with his daughters to a nearby Do It All store. He knew Billie-Jo was alive when they left because he heard his daughter Annie talking to her. Asked by his barrister, Christopher Sallon QC, if he had killed Billie-Jo, Mr Jenkins replied: "No, I did not." Mr Jenkins, of Belgravia, central London, denies murder. The trial continues.