Maxine Carr is a criminal. She is serving three-and-a-half years in prison for conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. As a convicted offender, she should not be treated favourably. But she should be treated fairly. And that is not happening.Carr has been in prison since she was arrested in August 2002. She became eligible and applied for early release as a tagged prisoner in January. The prison governor approved the application. Home Office ministers then changed the rules to allow the head of the National Offender Management Service, Martin Narey, to overrule a governor's approval if the decision "undermined public confidence" in the early release scheme. Mr Narey has now decided that Carr should remain in prison. She can now expect to be released on licence in May. It is important that the public should have confidence in the early release scheme, as in the criminal justice system as a whole. But it is also important that a prisoner applying for early release should be entitled to a fair and proper process. This turns on how public confi dence is defined. That is why Mr Narey's ruling is a disturbing one. Carr's conviction, he wrote, connects her "indelibly with this case and with the public outcry that has accompanied it". Indelibly is a strong word. It implies that Carr can never qualify for early release. That is at odds with the rehabilitative philosophy on which our prison system is based in all but the most extreme cases - of which Carr's is not one. Her treatment also raises the danger that populist newspapers like the Sun, which campaigns against Carr's release, will become the arbiters of public confidence. If they can prevent an early release - "a massive victory for Sun readers" the paper gloated yesterday - what is to stop them preventing any release at all, or claiming a veto over sentencing? On the evidence so far, this is an unfair process. If it is to survive at all, it is strongly in the public interest that the courts should rule on the limits of this potentially oppressive public confidence test before it is allowed to contaminate the rest of the criminal justice system.