A man was arrested by police yesterday in connection with the murder of a 15-year-old boy who was shot as he stood talking with a group of friends in Derby.Kadeem Blackwood, nicknamed Snipes, was wounded in the chest on Tuesday night after he and his friends got into an argument with another group. He died at Derbyshire royal infirmary.Derbyshire's assistant chief constable, Peter Goodman, said: "We are now gaining a clearer picture of what happened that night. We understand that Kadeem was walking through the park with a group of friends when they were approached by another group of males. Some sort or argument occurred and a shot was fired. At which stage, a number of males involved in the incident ran off." Armed police, a police helicopter and dog units were scrambled to the area after the shooting at 9.20pm.Forensic science teams worked in the autumn sun yesterday as the road was cordoned off with police tape and a white tent covered the site of the shooting.A friend of Kadeem's said: "This is serious shit. It's crazy, this is Derby you know, not New York." Neighbours expressed their shock. A group of youngsters said there had been gang tensions during the summer, but they had recently dissipated. A young woman who would not give her name said Kadeem was "bubbly, had a good sense of humour and was always up for a good time. He liked dancing and skanking to a 4x4 bassline." Kadeem looked older than his years because he was so tall and well-built. He loved boxing and trained at a nearby gym, his friends said.The young woman said the gangs were "like a street family. We are just a big group of people who go to each other's homes and to the studio to do music. The people who did this [shooting] took it too far.""Now they have shot him it is obviously going to get worse," a teenage boy said.He claimed: "Guns are so easy to get. You can make one phone call and 10 to 15 minutes later you have got yourself a gun for £40." He blamed the trouble on drugs. "It is to do with the weed," he added. Kadeem left Chellaston foundation school in December. The headteacher, Ray Ruszczynski, said he was a popular boy and it was "very sad when tragedies like this take place, especially in someone so young like Kadeem".Assistant chief constable Goodman, said: "This is a major incident - fatal shootings are not commonplace in the city of Derby." He said that a 19-year-old man had been arrested in Derby, and was questioned throughout the day."We have had a number of incidents and we have gained a number of significant convictions in relation to these," Goodman said. He said the most recent incident had been five months ago, when a window was damaged in a firearm incident."It's too early to state the motive or comment on speculation, but I would like to appeal to the people of Derby to come forward and tell us anything they know."A 15-year-old boy said: "There was a gang with him, and there was a lot of arguing. I heard the gunshot and I came running down and I saw the gang and he was lying on the floor."Kadeem's father, Steven Blackwood, said in a statement last night: "Kadeem's untimely death at such a tender age should send a message to all young people, not only in Derby but on a national scale, that this violence has to stop. The family are now reminiscing on the Kadeem we knew and loved."