A suspected ticket tout who may have been involved in a racket worth hundreds of thousands of pounds was arrested at Manchester United's Champions League tie with Lyon on Tuesday night.The arrest follows a widespread five-month investigation which uncovered hundreds of tickets being sold illegally at high prices. The 32-year-old man from Blackburn was arrested by Lancashire police on behalf of the Metropolitan police. He is being questioned on suspicion of fraud, ticket touting and money laundering.During the match, Lancashire police also executed search warrants at two addresses in Blackburn.Police believe tickets from a number of Premier League clubs were traded at inflated prices through a website. The investigation, which began in October last year, was funded by the UK Football Policing Unit in partnership with the Football Association and the Premier League.Detective Sergeant Will Hodgson, of the Met's public order crime team, said: "Ticket touting is not only illegal but can lead to an increase in violence at football games through segregation breakdown. "Genuine fans should not buy tickets from touts as they are potentially fuelling violence and lucrative criminal activity. People who buy from touts run the risk of finding themselves among opposing supporters, being ejected from grounds or not receiving their tickets at all."This operation is a good example of all the agencies working together to minimise risk within our football stadiums."The arrested man was taken to Blackburn police station. A crackdown began on ticket touts began in September 2006. The Premier League wrote to the owners of 140 websites to warn them they must stop trading or risk being prosecuted. It is thought the trade could yield profits of around £30m a year. Tickets which have a face value of as little as £20 can be sold for up to 14 times their value for key matches involving Manchester United, Chelsea, Liverpool and Arsenal.The Violent Crime Reduction Act, which came on to the statute books in the autumn two years ago, makes it an offence for internet agencies to sell tickets or hospitality packages including tickets to football matches.