A schoolboy murdered in an east London block of flats was transferred to a new school by his concerned parents after "bullies" stabbed him last year, his aunt said yesterday.Paul Erhahon, 14, collapsed in the street in front of his screaming mother after he and a friend were stabbed repeatedly in Leytonstone by a gang of up to 15 youths, just before 8pm on Friday.He died later in hospital, becoming the sixth Londoner under 17 to be murdered since the end of January. Boys of that age group are being shot or stabbed to death in the capital at the rate of one every 10 days.Last night a 15-year-old friend of Paul who has not been named remained in a critical condition in hospital as police continued to question two other boys, aged 19 and 13, arrested in connection with the attack.Paul's aunt, Jackie Mustapha, said yesterday that her nephew had been attacked last year after a "personal quarrel", prompting his parents to move him to a new school.Local teenagers said Paul was moved to Kingsford Community School - the same one attended by 15-year-old Adam Regis, who was stabbed to death last month.Detective Superintendent Andy Dolden, leading the murder inquiry, said he was keeping an open mind about a connection to gang crime, but there were "no obvious links" with the stabbing of Adam Regis or the claims that Paul had been stabbed before. He said local residents had been asked to search their gardens for a sharp-bladed implement that could be the discarded murder weapon."This is an absolutely devastating crime, it's simply horrific," he said. "We are working very hard to reduce knife crime and make sure the perpetrator of this crime is brought to justice."Ms Mustapha described Paul as a "good boy", adding: "He was always in his room, on his PlayStation, enjoying his music. I remember him for his closeness. He would always kiss and cuddle me, it was never a handshake."She confirmed that his mother, Ivy, was with her son as he lay dying. "His mum was there kissing him, cuddling him, trying to see if she could revive him."Other witnesses spoke of seeing Paul lying on the floor, barely moving, his mother at his side. Bleeding heavily, he had apparently staggered from the spot where he and his friends had been cornered, a foyer in a block of flats yards from his home.Locals youths spoke yesterday of two rival groups of teenagers known as the Thatched House and Cathall Boys who hold sway over two nearby estates, a mile from Leytonstone town centre.A 17-year-old, who was too scared to be named, said: "The Thatched House boys are E15 and the Cathall Boys are E11, it's all about postcodes."Another boy said he had warned Paul, who was originally from Nigeria, that gang members were looking for him just hours before his brutal murder. "I warned him that they were coming for him. He just thought it was a joke and laughed."Paul, an aspiring rapper whose MC name was Hell Reiser, profiled his songs on his MySpace webpage. One rap contains violent lyrics, apparently about confrontations with other gangs, cut to the sound of gunshots."I'm only going to say it one time, me and my boys strapped up with a ten-nine," he sings. "Bullets might make you do the somersault, my boys might put that strap to your throat."He lists his influences "bak in da day" as hip-hop rappers 2pac, So Solid Crew and Ice Cube.In another, slower, song, he raps about fearing being attacked - "I'm thinking whose going to be next to slate me" - and speaks of using music to escape the streets. "Every time I watch the news I get confused, why are people dying, and also crying? ... why does this happen? I can feel in the air and I think it's because all hell has broke loose."Flowers were left at the scene of the murder and a tribute site was set up at gonetoosoon.co.uk, with comments left by local parents and school friends.One friend, "kombat", wrote: "i tried to help you when you got stabbed quite a while back and told you to stand up for urself but sometimes at aint as easy as that. you was a big kid for your age but so harmless." Another, "fizzee" from Cathall Road Estate, added: "r.i.p paul you died before you lived."Graffiti tributes also appeared sprayed on to walls and fences around the murder scene. One shows a gravestone with the words "RIP Paul" written in black spray-paint.A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said the recent spate of young teenage deaths has caused "much alarm and distress", but added "everything that can be done is being done" to address the problem.London's teenage toll: Teenagers murdered in London in the past 11 weeks1. January 25: Jevon Henry, 18, died after being stabbed in the heart in St John's Wood, north-west London. People are later arrested and bailed but no one has been charged.2. February 3: James Andre Smartt-Ford, 16, of New Malden in Surrey, was shot at least twice at Streatham Ice Arena in front of hundreds of people attending an ice rink disco.3. February 6: Michael Dosunmu, 15, of Diamond Street, Peckham, was shot by gunmen who broke into his home. Police think it was a case of mistaken identity. Five people are on bail pending further inquiries.4. February 14: The son of an English builder and a Thai mother, Billy Cox, 15, was murdered at his home in Kennington, south London, in the afternoon. He was shot in the chest and was found dying by his sister.5. March 14: Kodjo Yenga, 16, was stabbed to death in Hammersmith Grove, west London.6. March 17: Adam Regis, the 15-year-old nephew of Olympic sprinter John Regis, died of a single stab wound to the chest in Plaistow, east London, as he travelled home from the cinema.