A Tory-Liberal Democrat alliance in the House of Lords could further damage the government's legislative plans, by starting to dismantle the criminal justice bill and the foundation hospitals bill.The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, has reached a provisional pact with the Lib-Dems in which peers will refuse to accept the home secretary David Blunkett's entire criminal justice bill if ministers insist on removing the right to trial by jury. Mr Blunkett wants to remove jury trials in complex fraud cases, or where there is a serious risk of jury-tampering or intimidation. Peers have rejected the proposals three times. The bill is due to have its ninth committee stage in the Lords tomorrow, but progress must speed up if ministers are to meet the November 26 deadline and the Queen's Speech. The bill still has to complete its committee, report and third reading stages in the Lords before the government uses its massive majority in the upper chamber to overturn the defeats already inflicted. The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolf, has told peers he may speak out against the "life means life" plans contained in the bill. The measures are due to be voted on this week. Responding to an earlier defeat in the courts, Mr Blunkett included a statutory power for parliament to set mandatory minimum starting sentences in murder cases where there is an automatic life sentence. The Lib-Dems and Tories want parliament to have some say over sentencing, by allowing MPs and peers to endorse the proposed guidelines independently set by the proposed Sentencing Guidelines Council. Mr Letwin, backed by the Conservative home affairs spokesman in the Lords, Baroness Anelay, has said the compromise would provide the "right balance of democratic accountability and respect for the judiciary". Critics claim that if Mr Blunkett's proposals go through, the jail population of those serving life would rise by 50%. Peers will also start to chip away at the foundation hospitals bill, especially how NHS foundation trusts will be run.