The Government is to impose an 11pm curfew on the use of fireworks and ban children from carrying them in the street in a desperate attempt to curb growing hooliganism associated with bonfire night.As local authorities and the police are swamped with complaints about late-night displays and fireworks thrown in the street, Ministers are to announce this week that voluntary codes controlling the sale and use of fireworks are not working. The Department of Trade and Industry will announce plans for new regulations making it illegal to set off fireworks or have displays at 'anti-social hours' and making it a criminal offence for people under 18 to carry fireworks in the street. Any child found with fireworks can be arrested by police. Although the Government will say that it is willing to consult on the proposals, it hopes to have them in place by bonfire night next year. Ministers will also argue it is now time for a wider public debate on fireworks, which yobs and criminals have seized on as a new weapon. Limits could be imposed on the size of fireworks and the amount of noise they emit, all displays may have to be licensed with the local authority; even back garden displays could be banned. The moves come as firework-associated vandalism sweeps many urban areas. In Liverpool, police are investigating a wave of attacks which has destroyed 30 cars and 29 telephone kiosks. Of most concern are 'air bombs' and powerful rockets, which vandals are modifying to build explosive devices. Fireworks have also been used in arson attacks. 'There was a BMW blown to smithereens using six of these devices,' Norman Bettison, the chief constable of Merseyside Police, said yesterday. 'The Army bomb disposal team said they had not seen anything like this on the mainland since the IRA campaign. It had the potential to kill. The shrapnel went up to 200 metres.' Police will meet Ministers tomorrow to demand greater controls over fireworks and who has access to them. 'We are not against fireworks, but we are concerned about air bombs and powerful explosives used by yobs and criminals, blowing up cars, telephone boxes and generally making people in many areas very fearful,' said one Minister closely involved in the plans. 'A lot of what happens in terms of the other areas we are looking at depends on how people behave this year.' Senior sources said that the Government is unlikely to propose banning the sale of fireworks from all but licensed premises, as it is feared that this would drive the firework trade under-ground. There is already a healthy illegal market in fireworks from abroad. 'There is a ban in countries such as Australia but we think that it is less likely that we will proceed with that here,' the Minister said. 'We have had a lot of responses to the proposals on licensing all displays and at this stage there is more support for that in comparison to the support there is for allowing people to continue having displays in their back gardens.' John Woodhead, the chairman of the British Fireworks Association, said the sale of illegal fireworks had reached 'epidemic proportions'. 'These people are selling from pubs and car boot sales,' he told the Guardian . Many of the fireworks are stored in people's houses or in warehouses close to electricity supplies. In Blackpool display fireworks worth up to £30,000 were seized from three premises, including a shop next door to a premises which had been gutted by fire the previous day.