Sir Ian Blair is the victim of a "spiteful" hate campaign designed to hound him from office, the chair of his police authority claimed yesterday.The comments came after a fresh round of negative publicity this week surrounded the embattled commissioner of the Metropolitan police. It was alleged he and his deputy, Paul Stephenson, had fallen out over whether to accept performance bonuses, a claim both men deny.Yesterday the Metropolitan Police Authority held a private 90-minute session to discuss the issue, with Sir Ian and his deputy reassuring members there was no rift. Afterwards the chair of the MPA, Len Duval, attacked the motives of those leaking against the commissioner.Mr Duval said there was an attempt to destabilise Sir Ian. He said: "We are not going to have any individual, be it the commissioner or any other police officer ... hounded out of office for the wrong reasons. The continued drip-drip of unattributed briefings - you need to question their motives." He said that "some people and some newspapers" had been running a campaign against Sir Ian that saw him damned for anything he did.He added: "Over Ian's tenure there have been a number of people who have leaked with the deliberate intention to undermine the direction of travel Sir Ian believes the Metropolitan police have to go."In a statement Sir Ian said: "While it is a matter for the authority to consider bonuses for the [senior] officers, Paul Stephenson, the deputy commissioner, and I have again informed the authority that we did not wish to be considered last year or this year. I also informed the authority that there was no row about this matter between us and we have an excellent working relationship."Sources have denied reports that Mr Stephenson refused his bonus, leading Mr Blair to feeling bounced into refusing his. Also denied is a claim the commissioner accused his deputy of betrayal.Conservative MPA member Richard Barnes, seen as critic of the commissioner, denied trying to stage a no-confidence vote in him. Asked about the fact that raised voices could be heard from the session, Mr Barnes said: "Some people have got colds."Support for Sir Ian came from the chair of the Met branch of the Police Federation, Glen Smyth, who said it was time for the critics to shut up. "He's not being treated fairly. Backstabbing has no place in all this," he said.He added it was right for Sir Ian to waive his right to a bonus because Police Federation members are angry that their pay rise is to be phased in by the government, rather than awarded in full.Sir Ian and his senior management team are now awaiting the jury's verdict in the trial into whether the force broke health and safety laws in the operation that led to Jean Charles de Menezes being shot dead after being mistaken for a terrorist. Closing speeches began yesterday.