Another night, another teenage victim of Britain's knife crime epidemic. Police called to a disturbance in New Lane in Salford, Greater Manchester, on Friday arrived just after 11pm to find a 17-year-old youth with serious stab wounds to his stomach. The youth, named last night as Courtney Eaton, was taken to the Hope Hospital but died early yesterday morning. Another 17-year-old was arrested on suspicion of murder. Greater Manchester has the third highest number of knife attacks in England: 2,294 last year. They included 20 attempted murders, 915 cases of wounding and 1,359 robberies. Just three weeks ago 16-year-old Conor Black was stabbed to death in Harpurhey, north Manchester.It is London, though, that has gained the unenviable reputation as the place where young people are most likely to be stabbed. Already this year 25 teenagers have met violent deaths, most of them as a result of knives. The accident and emergency department at King's College Hospital in south-east London treats more victims of stabbings than any other in England - almost one every day.At King's an astonishing 70 per cent of knife victims are aged between 13 and 19. While the number of such patients is going up, their age is going down. The youngest knife crime victim treated last year was a 10-year-old schoolboy. Last month the stabbing casualty list included a 14-year-old girl.Until recently A&E staff saw few females with blade wounds. But last year more than 10 per cent of patients at King's with such wounds were teenage girls or young women. Throughout last week King's gave The Observer unprecedented access to its A&E unit to witness how medical staff cope with the growing toll of knife crime. The stark reality of their work on the front line - dealing with the growing number of disputes settled with blades - raises many unsettling questions. The red phone on the wall behind reception in the King's A&E unit only rings when it's something serious. 'We've got a priority case for you,' the receptionist was told when she answered it just before 7pm last Saturday. 'Twenty-year-old male with multiple stab wounds,' added the London Ambulance Service controller. Yet another victim of knife crime, bleeding heavily, was heading towards King's. 'Red phone, five minutes,' the receptionist announced over the department's public address system. A trauma team of emergency care doctors and nurses, led by Dr Nick Lancaster, was quickly assembled. The man had been stabbed in the thigh, armpit, shoulder and hands - potentially life-threatening injuries that required urgent medical attention. A&E staff usually deal with victims of falls, heart attacks and car crashes. But King's is near the knife crime hot spots of Peckham, Brixton and Camberwell, so its personnel have also become experts in treating the many people who have been stabbed - 295 last year alone. The area's many gangs pursue often bloody disputes, and drug dealers settle scores, almost on the hospital's doorstep. When the 20-year-old arrived at 7.04pm he told staff that he was attacked from behind just off the Walworth Road, did not recognise those who had stabbed him and could not say how many were involved. That is typical. Staff at King's often hear vague stories when talking to knife crime victims, who hope their evasion will mean the police do not become involved. The notes on a 27-year-old woman treated last month read: 'Cut left breast with a knife today. Stabbed by a person. Declined to describe further.'Defensive injuries on the 20-year-old man's hands showed he had fought back desperately. Exploratory surgery revealed no internal damage. All he needed was another operation to repair the tendon in one hand, which was cut while he parried one of the thrusts. He was the 183rd person this year to be treated at King's for deliberately inflicted stab wounds. The total is now 185, of whom 153 received knife wounds and the other 32 injuries from another sharp weapon. He was also one of the lucky ones. King's treats an average of five or six stabbing victims a week, a figure that has been increasing relentlessly. Last week that included a middle-aged woman who had multiple knife wounds, in what seemed to be a domestic dispute. She was brought in by ambulance just after half past two last Monday morning: already in cardiac arrest when she arrived, she could not be saved. Tunji Lasoye, the consultant in charge of King's A&E, reels off some frightening statistics. Eighty per cent of last year's stab victims treated at the hospital involved one or more people deliberately inflicting physical damage on someone with a knife. In 6 per cent of cases a sharp weapon, such as a sword, screwdriver or broken bottle, was used for the same purpose. The rest involved either accidents or self-harm.'Knife wounds are a very small proportion of the 2,000 or so patients we see in A&E every week,' says Lasoye. 'But the proportion of death and disability in that small group of five or six stab victims a week is a lot higher than it is for people who have other things wrong with them. That is why knife crime is a massive problem.' Most patients who have been stabbed have one wound, he says. But 20 per cent have more than that. 'We treated one guy with seven stab injuries,' recalls Nigerian-born Lasoye, 47. 'He had several wounds in his back, a few in his chest and one or two in his abdomen. He survived, which was a surprise.' Most of those with multiple injuries have been attacked by more than one assailant - a trend that seems to be growing. Most worrying, perhaps, is Lasoye's disclosure that 'at least 70 per cent of all the knife crime victims we see are aged between 13 and 19 - teenagers. The 13 to 16-year-olds are arriving in growing numbers, but they are still not as many as the 17, 18 and 19-year-olds.' The 10-year-old boy Lasoye and his colleagues treated last year had been stabbed in the stomach at a playground during an altercation with other boys around his age. Fortunately his wound proved to be only superficial, but occurred near his spleen, so could easily have been worse. 'Five years ago we only had the odd female victim, usually as a result of domestic violence,' adds Lasoye. 'But last year 38 of the 295 stabbings we saw were female and, of them, only 15 were in that category. The other 23 happened in the same sort of circumstances as male victims of knife violence - in parks, nightclubs and in the street.'If young females, who are often teenage mothers, are involved in this sort of thing, what chance does their child have of living a normal life?'One 18-year-old woman last year had been stabbed in a nightclub at the top of her left buttock with such force that the knife went into the flesh on her side and ended up in her lower abdomen, near her kidneys. 'Her bowel could easily have been hit, leaving her needing a colostomy bag - not very sexy,' remarks Lasoye. A colostomy is an artificial bowel fitted to replace one which has been damaged, for example, in a knife attack. In talks at schools to warn pupils about the realities of knife crime, he often points out that a teenage girl whose tendon has been cut will not be able to dance properly and that a boy with the same injury has no chance of becoming a footballer. The doctor says that victims of stabbings are often also the perpetrators. 'I see them as victims in more ways than one. They are victims of ignorance of life in general, of the complex social situations they find themselves in, like the breakdown of family values, and of postcode or family feuds,' he says. He recently spoke to a group of local boys aged between 10 and 15. When he asked how many knew someone who carried a knife, about 90 per cent put up their hands. 'Young people who carry a knife have this twisted view about right and wrong, and a belief that carrying a knife protects you. It doesn't. It increases the chances of you being stabbed,' says Lasoye. 'These young people believe, for whatever reason, that violence is power and a way of achieving self-esteem and a sense of belonging. That mindset disturbs me greatly.'Lasoye's colleague Carole Olding, the trauma co-ordinator in A&E, was born and brought up in the often deprived part of south-east London which King's serves. 'In this area the stabbings are mainly gang related,' she says. 'Very few people who have been stabbed are innocent bystanders. Around here gangs are almost the new families. They offer boys and young men a brotherhood, and young women a sisterhood, an alternative fraternity - like being in a club. It makes you feel special and probably gives a sense of belonging. And when you are young you probably don't think that you are going to end up dead.'Olding has been a nurse for 31 years: 'Even a couple of years ago you could say that stabbings took place on Friday and Saturday - it was primarily a weekend thing. But now stabbings can happen at any time.'The most dangerous times are after school, around 3pm, and in the evening. Many incidents happen at parks and bus stops. Tension between local gangs can suddenly produce a flurry of bloodied victims for King's staff to deal with. One attack can trigger reprisals and produce two sets of victims to contend with. Treating members of rival groups poses threats to the security of staff and other patients. One night earlier this year, three 17-year-old boys walked into A&E at 8.15pm. All had been stabbed. Minutes later four other young males arrived. They seemed to want to get at the injured trio. But the victims, using their mobile phones while being treated, had already called their friends, and another group turned up.A fight broke out at the entrance to A&E. Then some of the young people managed to get into the supposedly secure treatment area behind reception and began chasing each other, causing mayhem around other patients. Some of the protagonists hid in cubicles to escape rivals who wanted to stab them. Only the arrival of 20 police officers, who arrested all those involved, headed off further bloodshed. A knife was later found discarded on a trolley and another in a rubbish bin. It is no wonder that all of King's A&E staff carry personal alarms and that ambulance crews are encouraged to wear stab-proof vests, especially when attending the scene of a knifing. A few stab victims only need to be seen in the A&E department's minor injuries unit. But most are taken into the five-bed resuscitation unit, which is reserved for casualties suffering major trauma. Whenever a stab victim arrives with the knife still lodged in them, it is left there until a full assessment is made. 'The three key things we need to find out urgently are the size of the blade, the force used to put it in and what direction it went in,' explains Aidan Slowie, the most senior nurse in the A&E.Premature removal may nick an artery, for example, and cause further damage. Anyone who has been stabbed in the chest will have their torso X-rayed to see if there is air or blood in their lungs. 'People can get stabbed anywhere in the body but we're seeing more and more people who have been stabbed in the stomach, chest or neck,' says Slowie. 'Sometimes it ends up looking like an abattoir in here,' he adds. Major blood loss is common. 'I think most young people who carry a knife don't mean to kill someone. But there's no safe part of the body to be stabbed in,' says Lasoye. 'An 18-year-old we saw last year was stabbed in the groin after a minor disagreement. He carried on mucking around, even though his trousers were soaked with blood. But he collapsed, and by the time an ambulance got there he had lost so much blood that death was inevitable. It was an easily treatable injury if he'd received immediate help.'