The son of Kevin McDaid, who was murdered by loyalists in Coleraine at the weekend, is now under a death threat, police in Northern Ireland confirmed today.Ryan McDaid held his father in his arms as he died from wounds sustained in an assault by up to 15 men on Sunday evening. He branded those responsible "thugs" and "animals".Another local Catholic man, Damien Fleming, is in a critical condition after he was assaulted by the same loyalist mob.Eleven men remained in police custody today in connection with the weekend murder in Coleraine, which followed an invasion of an area of the Co Derry town by up to 30 loyalists.The SDLP in Coleraine disputed a claim by the Northern Ireland security minister, Paul Goggins, that the killing was not organised by any loyalist faction. Kevin McDaid's widow, who was beaten by the gang as she tried to save her husband, said yesterday that the attackers shouted "We're from the UDA" during the assault.John Dallat, an SDLP Assembly member, said it was time for straight talking from the British government about the ongoing activities of the UDA and other loyalists in places such as Coleraine."Today we had to listen to Paul Goggins, who is supposed to be in charge of our security, saying there is no evidence that Kevin McDaid's death was part of an organised threat from loyalist murder gangs. At precisely the same time on the same radio station, we heard that the PSNI have informed the son of the murder victim that they have received information that his life is under threat."We constantly have to listen to the Northern Ireland Office going softly, softly against the loyalist murder gangs, which still hold on to their arsenals. It is time we got a bit of straight talking from NIO ministers. The people who battered Kevin McDaid to death told him they were from the UDA and there is no reason to disbelieve them. The threat may be a bit disorganised, it may not have had clearance from the relevant brigadier, but it is no less murderous for that. There should be no more easy ride for these murder gangs."The Sinn Fein councillor in Coleraine, Bill Leonard, said the death threat to Ryan McDaid was the ultimate insult."The world is sickened by Kevin's murder, yet cancerous Coleraine still spews out its loyalist sectarian bile and hatred," he said."This family have suffered enough. They must be able to grieve without further pressure. Those loyalists responsible must now publicly withdraw the threat and close down forever, and the police need to confirm which loyalist group the threat emanates from."Organisers of next weekend's loyalist march in Coleraine, which would pass the murder scene, have been urged to postpone the event.