A Briton on death row for 21 years in Ohio is expected to return home tomorrow a free man, amid serious concern over his long-term health.Kenny Richey, 43, from Edinburgh, was released from jail last night by a court in Ohio after he struck a deal with prosecutors not to contest reduced charges over the death of a two-year-old girl, Cynthia Collins, in a house fire in 1986.Having for two decades fought to clear his name - culminating in one stay of execution an hour before he was to be electrocuted - Richey is expected to fly into Edinburgh airport tomorrow afternoon with his brother and civil rights campaigners to be welcomed by his mother Eileen, a launderette manager.Outside court yesterday, Richey gave his first reaction as a free man: "It's been a long time coming." He thanked those who had supported him over the years and never doubted his innocence. "It's great to finally be free at last. I'm looking forward to going back to Scotland." Ken Parsigian, his lawyer, said his client was very excited. "It's finally sinking in. There's been a lot of anxiety in the last couple of weeks but this time it feels real."British rights campaigners were jubilant. Clive Stafford Smith, legal director of the charity Reprieve and a campaigner against the US death penalty, said: "After Kenny's heart scare, it is a tremendous relief to see him finally walk free. This is a great day for him and his family."Stafford Smith, a US-qualified lawyer who first championed Richey's claim that he was wrongly convicted, said his former client's plea bargain did not mean Richey accepted blame for the girl's death.His deal allowed Ohio's state prosecutors - who have repeatedly refused to accept Richey was wrongly convicted - to save face and avoided a protracted retrial for the girl's murder. Although a federal appeal court overturned his conviction last August, leading to judges ordering a retrial, the prosecution had insisted that he started the fire which killed Cynthia, in a drunken rage following a row with her mother, his former girlfriend.By pleading "no contest" to reduced charges of endangering Cynthia's life by failing to honour a promise to babysit her - thus leaving her unprotected when the fire began - as well as an unrelated burglary charge, he had been cleared of the much more serious death row murder charge. The charges were designed for the sentence to equal the 21 years he has served, allowing him to walk free."There should be no mistake that this deal is nothing short of complete vindication for Kenny," Stafford Smith said yesterday. "The prosecutors no longer accuse him of murder or having anything to do with starting the fire. Instead, they have charged him with, essentially, failing to babysit. For all intents and purposes, he will walk free from jail today completely exonerated - now he must work to get his life back together."However, Cynthia's family reacted angrily during the hearing yesterday. Valerie Binklay, the child's aunt, broke down, telling Richey to "burn in hell"."How do you go about putting into words what a two-year-old means?" she said. "I want you to know you fooled nobody. Not me, not that baby, not any of these people. You will burn in hell."Cynthia's father, Robert, could not face being in court but had prepared a statement. "The situation surrounding the death of my little girl has haunted me for 21 years," it read. "I try not to think about how she died but it consumes my thoughts ... The pain will always be with me."The deal means Richey cannot claim compensation from the state of Ohio. Although he has signed an exclusive deal with a Sunday newspaper, he has no job in the UK, and his supporters believe he faces a difficult future.A former US marine and a self-proclaimed "crazy head" and drunk before his conviction, Richey has had two heart attacks on death row and needs surgery.BackstoryKenny Richey was born in the Netherlands to an American father and Scots mother. Four years after moving to America, the former US marine was implicated in a fire in Ohio which killed a toddler. He denied the charges but was sentenced to death. After a stay of execution in 1987, his appeals were twice rejected. In 1994, an execution was stayed an hour before he was due on the electric chair. Witnesses then retracted statements implicating him. A further appeal was denied and another execution stayed. His appeal was reheard and upheld last August.