A serial sex attacker accused of murdering two young Spanish women is being investigated over the abduction and murder of Surrey schoolgirl Milly Dowler.Police are now checking air tickets, hotels and hire cars in an attempt to piece together a "map" of possible return visits to Britain by Tony King. Detectives from five forces are contributing to the jigsaw which could link King, previously known as Tony Bromwich, to a series of high-profile killings including that of Milly Dowler.King's wife meanwhile revealed that she led Spanish police to her husband when he came home cut and bruised shortly after the murder of 17-year-old Sonia Carabantes in August. The 38-year-old barman, who was jailed in 1986 for a series of sex attacks in London known as the "Holloway stranglings", has allegedly confessed in custody to the murder and the killing of 19-year-old au pair Rocio Wanninkhof on the Costa del Sol in 1999. Commander Andy Baker, the head of Scotland Yard's murder squad, said that 10 detectives had been detailed to work with Spanish police and the five regional forces in an exercise called Operation Washfield. The group, which is drawing up a timeline of King's movements, appealed for information from any other women who think they may have been attacked or stalked by the barman. Scotland Yard cautioned that no one should jump to conclusions about links and there were no definite leads as yet to cases such as Milly's. A spokesman said: "We have received six inquiries from five UK police forces regarding King/Bromwich. We are examining a total of six unsolved offences in the UK, four murders and two rapes." King is known to have left the country hastily in August 1997 after a vicious attack on a Hungarian student at Leatherhead station, Surrey. He moved to Spain the day before CCTV film of a man at the station was shown on BBC TV's Crimewatch, prompting several viewers to ring in with King's name.Fingerprints from his house led to the realisation that he was actually Tony Bromwich, who was released after serving a six-year sentence for the Holloway assaults. But there was insufficient evidence to extradite him from Spain, where his new wife, Cecilia, was unaware of his previous identity. Mrs King, a 37-year-old teacher, said she rang Scotland Yard and was told to contact the Spanish inquiry team. She told the Sunday Mirror: "It was the most gut-wrenching feeling, like a hammer crashing down on me. Tony lived close to the two murder scenes and I began putting two and two together. You think: 'Oh no, please God. Please will it not be true'." Spanish police say that King has admitted both murders and three rapes on the Costa del Sol, and detectives are optimistic that he will open up about any other attacks in Britain. Milly Dowler, 13, vanished from another Surrey rail station at Walton-on-Thames in March last year. Her body was found six months later in Hampshire woodland 20 miles away.