The very first commentary I ever had published in the national press was about prisons. It was a response to a once famous remark by the then Labour home secretary Roy Jenkins, who, in a lecture in July 1975, warned that prison conditions would become intolerable if prison numbers were to rise to a then unprecedented 42,000. As I recall, I denounced the greatest liberal home secretary of the last century for displaying "Neronian ­indifference" to the gathering crisis.Youthful hyperbole indeed. All the more so when this week, 35 years on, the prison population of England and Wales stands at 82,653. Add in Scotland and Northern Ireland and the total is just over 92,000. If Jenkins were alive to reflect afresh on his lecture, he might be tempted to quote the words of Clive of India to his accusers in 1773: "By God, Mr Chairman, at this moment I stand astonished at my own moderation."Is this country really more than twice as bad as it was in the 1970s? More than twice as wicked, as dangerous, as frightening, as lawless, as disorderly? More than twice as much in need of the protection which imprisonment is supposed to ensure? Few people would make such a claim. No manipulation of the crime figures could sustain it either. Judged by the British Crime Survey, crime is now lower than it was when the BCS first started in 1981, a year in which riots and tumult reached levels unmatched ever since. Yet Britain sends more people to prison than ever.One of the things that has changed since the 1970s is the attention that is paid to crime and punishment by the media and the political parties. It would only be a slight exaggeration to say that no political party campaigned seriously on these issues at all before the 1970s. Work your way through FWS Craig's invaluable compendium of British general election manifestos 1900-1974 and you will find scarcely a reference to criminal justice. For all the attention that politics paid them, Britain's prisons might just as well not have existed at all.Just occasionally there is an exception. In 1959 Harold Macmillan promised to "review the system of criminal justice and undertake penal reforms that will lead offenders to abandon a life of crime". In 1966, Harold Wilson pledged: "Our prisons can only provide a useful reformative influence when we … transfer the inmates to more modern surroundings where they can do work of some social value." Another country – yet both leaders won large majorities.It was only in the 1990s that the parties began the arms race on criminal justice. Laura Norder was Mrs Thatcher's child, but with the rise of Tony Blair, Labour started to compete for her vote. For the past 15 years, the two main parties have battled to outdo one another as the party that puts more police on the streets, that passes tougher laws, that cares more about victims, and gets more criminals convicted. After a slow start, prisons have now become part of that race. In 2005 Labour boasted of having built 16,000 more prison places than existed in 1997. The Tories countered with a promise to build 20,000 more.The upshot is that we build more prisons and imprison more people, a vicious circle in which both major parties collude, as much out of fear as conviction. In his memoirs, even Jenkins admitted feeling under pressure to promote imprisonment to appease the media. "I ought to have been steadier under fire," he wrote, in words that other decent holders of his office will sympathise with, "but it is easier to say this in retrospect than it was to sustain it during the barrage of daily bombardment."And so it continues today. In spite of the abandonment of the Titan programme, plans are well advanced for new prisons to house a potential population of 96,000 in England and Wales alone by 2014. When that figure is reached, England and Wales will have an imprisonment rate of 169 per 100,000 of population. Even the current rate of 153 per 100,000 compares badly with Germany's 90 and France's 96. The criminologist Nicola Lacey thinks our adversarial political system may be to blame. Advanced countries with more consensual politics have lower imprisonment rates and more progressive regimes. But for now, we are the Texas of Europe.As penal thinking has spiralled out of sense, so have penal costs. According to the Commons justice committee's immensely significant report this week, the new building programme will cost between £3.2bn and £4.2bn, with running costs for the extra places estimated at £482m a year. Rely on these figures at your peril: the report also notes that the average capital build cost per new prison place tripled to £153,000 between 1998 and 2008. As the committee scathingly observes: "These huge sums of money have been committed without any obvious cost-benefit analysis of alternative options or any public consultation on the desirability of a prison building programme." It costs £40,000 a year to keep someone in prison. Is there no better use for such sums? In some cases we might be better off just giving them the money.How can public policy escape from the mind-forged policy manacles in which it is currently imprisoned? Not easy, as Jenkins admitted even in the 1970s. Infinitely harder for lesser politicians in the face of the 24/7 government-hating media. Yet not impossible, either.One option might be to call a truce and look for ways of taking prisons out of politics. It is hard to believe that either justice secretary Jack Straw or his shadow Dominic Grieve is a true prisons believer deep down. If one tenth of the media indignation expended on Gary McKinnon's extradition was directed towards keeping disturbed young people out of British prisons we would be getting somewhere.Another option might be to hide behind public spending problems, as to some extent the justice ministry does, and cut the building programmes and the sentencing tariffs while stealthily promoting alternatives and hoping that the Daily Mail doesn't notice. A third, as the criminologist Ian Loader argued to the Commons inquiry, would be to stop pretending we face a national crime problem, which we don't, and treat penal policy in a more local context.Yet with an election looming, most of this is whistling in the dark. Another way to break Britain of its imprisonment binge would be to vote for the party of the man who chaired the Commons inquiry, the Liberal Democrat Sir Alan Beith, who has done the nation no small service with this week's fine report. But the cold truth is that there are no voters in prisons, and no votes there either.