William Hague's speech in the wake of the Tony Martin case marked a major development in Conservative party policy on crime. He claimed that public confidence in the criminal justice system was close to collapse under Labour and pledged a series of policy changes. Self-defence Mr Hague pledged to "re-balance the justice system to protect people who defend their families, their homes and their property against criminals." He said: "Vigilantes have no place in a civilised society. "But there is all the difference in the world between the career criminal who sets out deliberately to burgle a house and the terrified homeowner who acts to protect himself and his home. Unless our laws reflect natural justice, then they fall into disrepute. "The next Conservative government will overhaul the law with a strong presumption that, in future, the state will be on the side of people who protect their homes and their families against criminals." Analysis: The current law already provides substantial protection to people who kill or inflict harm while defending themselves, their property or other people, or to prevent a crime. If a defendant argues, as Tony Martin did at his trial, that he was acting in self-defence, the jury must acquit him of any crime if it believes the force he used was reasonable in the circumstances. The onus is on the prosecution to convince the jury that the force used went beyond what was reasonable. "Reasonable force" is not defined in law but is left to the common sense of the jury.Making the presumption that the defendant acted in self-defence any stronger would mean sanctioning a disproportionate response, encouraging householders to use guns, electric fences and rottweilers. It might also fall foul of the right to life guarantee in the Human Rights Act, which comes into force this October. An alternative way for the state to lessen the impact of the law on those who step over the mark is to repeal the mandatory life sentence for murder. Judges could then tailor the sentence to the circumstances of the crime and impose a range of sentences, as they do now for manslaughter. The House of Lords select committee on murder and life imprisonment recommended the change in 1989. So did an independent committee chaired by Lord Lane, the former Lord Chief Justice, in 1993. Lord Irvine, now Lord Chancellor, said in a House of Lords debate in 1989 that the mandatory life sentence for murder was "inappropriate", since "murder embraces such a multitude of diverse sins". Lord Bingham, now Lord Chief Justice but soon to become the senior law lord, called for the abolition of the mandatory life sentence in 1998. He argued that this would allow judges to sentence more leniently where there was "excessive response to a personal threat". The House of Lords select committee on murder also recommended the creation of a new defence where the defendant used excessive force while believing that what he did was reasonable. If that defence succeeded, it would reduce a murder charge to manslaughter, leaving the judge free to sentence according to the circumstances.  Sentencing burglars Hague: "What is the point of having a police service and prisons when three criminals, with 114 convictions between them are allowed to wander about free to terrorise rural communities? What has happened to our courts system when career burglars and muggers get a few dozen hours community service, or a couple of months in prison, if they're unlucky?" Analysis: Jack Straw implemented Michael Howard's "three strikes and you're out" law for career burglars from December 1999. It means that a persistent burglar convicted of a third offence will serve a minimum of three years before any consideration of parole unless the court believes there are exceptional circumstances in which case the judge must give reasons.  Minimum sentences Hague: "We will introduce honesty in sentencing, which means that criminals serve sentences handed down in court." Analysis: A practice direction issued on January 24 1998 told judges they had to explain in open court the effects of the custodial sentence they were passing. They were asked to specify the minimum sentence that the convicted criminal would serve as well as the maximum that they recommended. The practice direction was also called "honesty in sentencing".  Police numbers Hague: "Why is the government cutting police numbers, and why has it hamstrung the job of those policemen and policewomen, who remain, at the very moment when crime is starting to rise again?" Analysis: Jack Straw has announced extra funding to boost police recruitment by 5,000 extra officers over the next two years. This will not reverse the decline in police numbers and the Home Office estimates that by March 2001 police num bers will be 2,600 lower than at the May 1997 general election. Ministers argue that cutting paperwork, improved technology and modernisation, will mean more bobbies will be on the beat than three years ago.The jury is still out on whether this will be achieved.  Parole Hague: "Automatic early release on licence will be ended." Analysis: The "automatic" part is the right to a parole hearing every five years. A risk assessment is undertaken and the prisoner not released if a danger to the public.  Drugs sellers Hague: "We will extend the 'two strikes and you're out' regime to other crimes, such as selling drugs to children." Analysis: Since October 1997 under legislation passed by Michael Howard a dealer in class A drugs, selling to adults or children, who is convicted of a third offence, faces a minimum prison sentence of seven years.  Prison work Hague: "We will make prisoners work in prison, rather than sit about learning from each other about how to commit more crimes." Analysis:Latest prison service figures show that each prisoner spends 23.3 hours a week in "purposeful activity" whether work or education. Major constraint on expanding prison work is lack of contracts from private companies.