After three young men were convicted of the fatal stabbing of teenager Ben Kinsella, the government announced a review of the minimum sentence for murder with a knife. This review has now concluded, and the justice secretary, Jack Straw, has announced that a decade will be added to the recommended minimum time that must be served, raising it from 15 years to 25 years."So what?" you might say. The minimum for murder with a firearm is already 30 years, and this begins to iron out an apparent anomaly. Why does it matter whether somebody is murdered with a gun or a knife? Both are weapons, the use of which should be stamped out. Some victims do want longer sentences and their views should be taken into account. Public confidence in sentencing, and in the justice system in general, is important. However, there are other factors to consider.Firstly, there are questions about how effective this change will be. The mandatory sentence for anyone convicted of murder is already life imprisonment, and this would not change. What would change is the starting point for the judge in deciding the minimum period that must be served before the offender can be considered by the parole board for release. Judges may quite properly impose a shorter period if there are mitigating factors and there is also a reduction for a guilty plea. Rightly, it also does not apply to those under the age of 18, where there is a 12-year starting point. As a result, while most offenders will now get much longer sentences, it is inevitable that some will not get the 25-year minimum.However, given the publicity generated by this high-profile announcement, the families of future victims will expect such a sentence. If a shorter sentence is handed down they will feel cheated – and understandably so. One of the key findings of Victims' Champion Sara Payne's recent report on victims' experiences of the criminal justice system is that transparency in sentencing should be increased so that victims and their families can better understand it. Straw's announcement, and the way it has been publicised, will instead risk raising expectations in a way that will not be met.Conversely, while sentences may not be as long as victims would hope in some cases, an increase in the starting point may lead to some sentences that are inappropriately harsh. Judges may be bound by the statute to give longer sentences than they would choose to in exceptional cases, even once mitigating factors have been taken into account. In addition, when one minimum sentence is changed, it has a broader effect in practice as sentences for related offences are readjusted to maintain proportionality across the sentencing framework. Cases of manslaughter involving a knife, for instance, could now attract longer sentences. Whether or not this is appropriate needs proper scrutiny.In addition, one of the main arguments given for this increase in minimum sentences is a perceived deterrent effect. This is presumably what home secretary Alan Johnson had in mind when he said that the government is "sending out a clear message to the small minority of people who commit such serious and premeditated crime that it will not be tolerated". Whatever the commonsense arguments supporting this conclusion, it is simply not backed up by the evidence. In fact, an overwhelming body of evidence shows that increasing sentence lengths has no significant impact on offending.And it is not clear what evidence underpins this change, as the reasons for it have not been properly explained. Straw says he consulted on it, but as far as I am aware no open consultation took place. He argues that there is "considerable concern" about the present starting point, but that is the case for many sentences that are seen as either too long or too short. Without giving a proper rationale for this exercise, it risks looking like headline-chasing.Straw has said that a statutory instrument introducing this change will be laid before parliament before Christmas.I have every sympathy for the families of all those people killed by a knife. I don't doubt that some individuals deserve to go to prison for a very long time. I do, however, question whether this change in the law is either necessary or appropriate.And the evidence is not available to answer that question. Instead of announcing this change with a press release intended to generate positive headlines for the government, Straw should publish the results of his review in full. Until then, the jury's out on whether enacting this proposal will actually cut knife crime.