The Home Office is considering introducing regular psychological testing for police officers to monitor how they cope with the mental strain of their jobs, it emerged yesterday.Those who routinely carry guns, work undercover or investigate paedophiles are among those who could benefit from the initiative, which is part of the government's £15m strategy to try to reduce sickness, absenteeism and early retirement among officers. The move was agreed in principle yesterday morning by a Home Office steering group which includes the Police Superintendents' Association of England and Wales and the Police Federation of England and Wales, according to Chief Superintendent Mike McAndrew, a member of the working group."There are some cops that are doing difficult and dangerous jobs," he said. "It would fly in the face of reality not to assume they are likely to suffer stress. Stress can cause psychological illness and we have a responsibility to the people we put into those jobs to make sure they are not adversely affected by this." Chief Supt McAndrew, who is also a spokesman for the Police Superintendents' Association of England and Wales, added that the introduction of such testing would act as an early warning system to help those who were suffering to get the help they needed. He said it would also combat the "macho" culture within the police which deters officers from complaining about the pressures of the job. The proposal would probably involve officers regularly completing health questionnaires. If necessary, officers could then get further help and talk face-to-face with occupational psychologists. The steering group meeting was held less than a week after it emerged that Scotland Yard is reviewing the length of time officers spend in its specialist paedophile unit. The unit tracks down Britain's worst child sex offenders and their work involves routine examination of traumatising images of child abuse. All officers may be considered for psychological testing. But those with duties deemed to be particularly stressful are likely to be the initiative's primary focus. "The logical extension is that all police officers will get this but it is an expensive business so we will start with the vulnerable people," Chief Supt McAndrew said. He said at the moment officers like himself were expected to monitor the health of their staff in addition to all their other responsibilities. But such police ranks have no specialist training in occupational health - and junior officers might not want to complain to their boss about being stressed. "There is something about police officers gritting their teeth and getting on with it in circumstances they would regard as a weakness if they showed they were having problems," he added. "Long term, the hope is to reduce stress and illness and early retirements ." Government figures show the number of days lost in the force due to sick leave in 2000-01 was 1,516,147. The average number of days lost for each officer was 12.2 compared with the 2001 average in the public sector of 10.2 days, and 7.2 days in the private sector. Chief Supt McAndrew said the figure for the police compared favourably with other employees when the sort of work officers had to do was taken into account, and showed the need for monitoring. He added: "The reason this would be brought in isbecause people are being affected already by the job. People are spending time sick, not swinging the lead, but genuinely ill as a result of their job." The proposal is part of the Strategy for a Healthy Police Service approved last October by the former Home Office minister John Denham.