A man who allowed a three-year-old girl to smoke cigarettes was today jailed for 18 months.In mobile phone footage taken by a 14-year-old girl, Graeme Conroy, 31, is seen handing the lit cigarette to the child and encouraging her to inhale.Conroy was caught when a neighbour became aware of the video and told police, Newcastle crown court heard.In the video, Conroy can be heard joking and guffawing with laughter. A 16-year-old witness told police what Conroy did at a house in Wardley, Gateshead, on 24 February this year. "He said 'watch this'. She [the girl] like had a tab. We thought it was funny at first and he said 'video it'."She had finished it and put it out in the ashtray. The girl asked for another one and he said 'you've had enough' and she started crying so he gave her another one.""She was inhaling and everything. It looked like she had smoked before. She was inhaling it and she knew what to do."Graeme didn't tell her what to do. She just knew what to do."Tony Glover, prosecuting, said: "The essence of the offence is that he encouraged this child to smoke. He admitted giving a child a cigarette. He said he knew it was wrong and knew he shouldn't have done it."Glover said the girl had smoked two cigarettes before the teenage witness had arrived and was seen to have smoked another three.Jane Foley, defending, said: "His behaviour was irresponsible and he clearly didn't give sufficient thought to what he was doing, believing it to be a bit of a joke. Clearly it's not funny. To anyone hearing the circumstances of the offence they would be appalled to hear that a three-year-old girl was permitted to smoke this cigarette. He has accepted his responsibility at the earliest opportunity."Conroy, of Ashington, Northumberland, admitted wilfully ill-treating, neglecting or exposing a child in a manner likely to cause suffering or injury to health.Judge David Wood, sentencing Conroy, said: "You evidently thought it would be funny if she was allowed to smoke cigarettes and you could take a video of what was going on."I expect you realise now this was not funny at all. This sort of conduct could be very damaging to a child's health and could have all sorts of effects upon her future health. You have completely disregarded her safety and endangered her."