A couple who found a winning lottery ticket on the floor of a shop and collected the £30,000 prize have been given suspended jail sentences after the pensioner who bought it realised it was lost and alerted the authorities.Amanda and Michael Stacey spent half the money in a month clearing debts, buying new carpets and treating their children after Mrs Stacey spotted the slip in a Co-op supermarket in Swindon, Wiltshire.But 61-year-old Dorothy McDonagh, who had bought the Daily Play ticket, rang the lottery operator Camelot after discovering she had mislaid it, and police were called when it emerged the jackpot had already been claimed.Rob Ross, defending, told Swindon crown court: "It is important for the public to know that 'finders keepers, losers weepers' is not true and never was true."The couple were given 11-month sentences, suspended for two years, after admitting charges of fraud by false representation. Amanda Stacey also admitted theft. The judge, Mark Horton, told the pair: "Your decision to take this money was one of dire financial need in your household at the time rather than pure financial greed." Police froze the remaining £15,000 of the prize, but McDonagh will not find out if she will get it until a financial hearing in July. The only way she can recover the other half is by launching a private action.She said she was angry that Camelot would not pay out again. "I have a nervous condition and I'm an absolute wreck over this," she said. "I just hope Camelot see this and decide to do the decent thing." Camelot said it had nothing to do with the outstanding dispute and it had cooperated fully with police. A spokesman said: "We sympathise with her situation, which is why we remind players it is their responsibility to keep tickets safe and fill out their names and addresses on the back. "The dispute is now between the two parties involved. We have a clear lost and found policy so if a member of the public finds the ticket they should send it to our prize payout department, setting out in writing the circumstances of the find and the steps they took (if any) to reunite the ticket with its rightful owner."McDonagh said she would continue to play the lottery. "What else can I do?" she said. "It's my hobby."