Welcome to a new pacified utopia. "Is this the end of the age of violence?" asked the Daily Telegraph on Wednesday. The next day, the Times announced the arrival of something called Generation Zero. "No drinking. No smoking. No fighting," ran their front-page trail; inside, a piece reckoned that increasing numbers of 16- to 25-year-olds "really don't do a whole lot, or at least, not when it comes to traditional vices". What happened to such worn-out old tropes as feral youth, yob culture, and the prime minister's own golden oldie, broken Britain?The trigger for all this feelgood coverage was the latest report from Cardiff University's Violence and Society Research Group, which for more than 10 years has been publishing an annual analysis of figures for injuries from violence recorded by 117 NHS emergency departments. Last year's showed a 12% drop in the number of people treated after violent crimes. In 2011-12, the decrease was 14%. In fact, only one year since 2002 has seen an increase. "Each time, before we've crunched the data, I've thought, 'We're going to see a spike back up again – it can't happen again, can it?'" says Professor Jonathan Shepherd, a surgery specialist who leads the work. But the numbers keep tumbling.The Cardiff research has a lot going for it. Its findings correlate with the government's crime figures – witness the recent announcement of a 22% fall in people's experience of violent crime – and cut through notoriously unreliable police statistics while also containing convincing answers to sceptical questions. For instance: what if the decline is partly because the number of teens and twentysomethings is falling, while the violent behaviour of the worst of them remains as prevalent as ever? Answer: between 2012 and 2013 the largest decreases in what the report calls "violence rates" were among those aged 11 to 17 (18%), followed by those aged 18 to 30 (14%).I grew up in the sedate Cheshire suburbs, but memories of my adolescence are full of incidents of violence, all of it pointless, and often completely inexplicable. Church hall discos and gigs in leisure centres would be routinely enlivened by punch-ups and gang fights. For want of anything else to do, packs of lads would occasionally take the bus away from their own turf to find new people to "jump" – in the non-sexual sense – by way of an evening's entertainment (as absurd as it sounds, we lived in particular fear of a gang from Holmes Chapel, a slumbering village that nudges the M6).I was beaten up twice by people I barely knew: "Sorry mate, wrong lad," was the standard excuse uttered by people who had experienced some strange spasm of fury at a youth club pool table, or in a chip shop queue. At school, things could be just as frightening: one lunchtime, I saw a 16-year-old boy – he had talked to someone else's girlfriend or something – beaten up so badly by at least 15 other people that when he tumbled out of the scrum, some of us thought he was dead.The music we listened to was of a piece with it all. "Too much fighting on the dancefloor," went the Specials' Ghost Town. In the same year the Clash released an evocative piece of rock noir, Somebody Got Murdered. The true poet of the time, though, was the young Paul Weller, who caught the mood in the songs he wrote for the Jam. In 'A' Bomb In Wardour Street (1978), "law and order takes a turn for the worst, in the shape of a size 10 boot". There are similar flashes in 1980's That's Entertainment: "Lights going out and a kick in the balls"; "The smash of glass and the rumble of boots". In 2012, I asked Weller where such imagery came from. "When we played, almost every night, it kicked off," he said. "You could set your watch by it. The sea would part, and people would lay into each other."So why are things now so comparatively quiet? All week we have heard the theories. The psychologist Steven Pinker has been advancing his belief that "this may be the most peaceable time in our species' existence" (news to the residents of Donetsk and Damascus, perhaps). There has been talk about the declining affordability of alcohol and the removal of lead from petrol. Given that the Crime Survey for England and Wales suggests violent crime peaked in 1995, fans of the "prison works" credo pioneered by the then home secretary Michael Howard have done rhetorical victory laps. Other changes in the mid-1990s might be just as relevant – not least the internet, which has surely served to alert people to the idea that other humans are there to commune with rather than duff up, and that life's possibilities do not end at, say, the edges of villages next to the M6.But two other things happened around this time. The first was the development of a new approach to crime, or the prospect of it, based on what the policy wonk vernacular calls multi-agency prevention. Benign examples include A&E departments briefing police about new sources of trouble; the most notorious early manifestation was the asbo. The other 90s innovation was the huge growth of CCTV. At Cardiff they long ago compared places that used it with others that had yet to do so. "Basically, what we found was that CCTV increased the extent to which the police found out about violence, and facilitated early intervention in an argument or a punch-up, so that nobody ended up in hospital with a broken jaw or a head injury," says Shepherd. He sounds sceptical about an associated possibility, but it seems plausible enough to me: perhaps unhinged people are less likely to kick off if they know they'll be filmed, and possibly caught.All this suggests something rather different from all that hoop-la about Generation Zero: what some people would call a "smart" state and others would view as an increasingly oppressive leviathan, successfully squashing the prospect of violence but leaving human psychology as messed up as ever. Maybe violent impulses now get pushed elsewhere, as evidenced by the apparent epidemic of teenage online bullying and the great firestorms of misanthropy that roar across Twitter. Rising rates of depression, self-harm and anxiety might be part of the same story – as, surely, is the thin divide between supposed calm and complete disorder that broke so spectacularly during the riots of 2011.The bootboy of yesteryear, then, might have been superseded by a more complex and worrying reality. Again, music is a good place to start looking – as shown by an increasingly admired duo from the east Midlands called Sleaford Mods, whose lyrics, delivered in a kind of half-irate rasp, perfectly capture the fact that a less troublesome country is not the same as a happier one. One of their best songs is Jobseeker: apart from anything else, it's grimly hilarious. "Can of Strongbow / I'm a mess," it goes. "Desperately clutching on to a leaflet on depression, supplied to me by the NHS / It's anyone's guess how I got here." Meanwhile, the BBC's home editor claimed this week that "intolerance of aggression and tolerance of difference have become social norms that make for a more peaceful and calm society". Who believes that?