Twenty teenagers have been arrested over the fatal stabbing of a 15-year-old boy in London's Victoria station last nightafter a gang of up to 10 youths in school uniforms pursued him through the ticket hall.The teenagers – aged between 14 and 17 – were being held at several London police stations and were being interviewed by detectives today after the attack, which happened during the evening rush-hour.The victim, said to be from west London, suffered serious wounds to his upper body and died later in hospital.Detective Superintendent Ashley Croft, the senior investigating officer from British Transport police, said: "This was a reckless act of violence that has resulted in a teenager tragically losing his life and our thoughts are with his family at this time. We believe the attack started on steps leading into the tube station on Terminus Place before continuing into the Circle and District line booking hall."A Transport for London ticket office worker, who declined to be named, said: "My colleague was right there as it unfolded. The boys attacking him couldn't have been any older than him as they were wearing a dark blue school uniform."Another member of staff, who also did not want to be named, said: "I saw too much, I saw him on the ground bleeding."British Transport police said: "A 15-year-old boy was taken to hospital by the London ambulance service, where he later died. His family have been informed and a specially trained BTP officer is with them at this time."Part of the tube station was still sealed off this afternoon while police searched the scene.A TfL official said it was expected to remain closed for the rest of the day.The night before the incident, a row broke out between schoolboys of the same age inside the mainline railway station at Victoria, one commuter said.Police had struggled to keep that incident under control, said John Angeli, 47, of Haywards Heath, West Sussex. "There was a very tense situation just outside WH Smith – there was a big kerfuffle with about 10 or 15 kids all screaming. They were all in uniform, aged about 15 or 16. There were about two or three British Transport officers all struggling to keep things under control."I only watched for a couple of minutes but I saw the police call for backup to bring things under control. I assume nobody was hurt."During the incident on the station concourse at 6pm on Wednesday, Angeli said, three or four boys pushed past him to join the fight. "I'm not sure if they had been called on their mobile phones," he said.It is not clear if the two incidents are related. However, police said they were stepping up patrols after yesterday's attack. Croft added: "We are working closely with our colleagues at the Metropolitan police to build up a picture of what took place immediately before, during and after the attack and ask anyone who was at the station at the time or who has any information to get in touch."