A schoolboy has died after a knife attack at his home in Washington, Sunderland, shortly after midnight.Police are questioning a 31-year-old man, who was known to the boy, after emergency services received a call from the house in the Newriggs area.The victim was named unofficially by residents as Jordan Cooper, 14, who was a pupil at Biddick school sports college. Students gathered in groups on their way to the school, many in tears.Detectives said the man being questioned was a relative of the victim and was arrested when officers arrived in response to the phone call. The boy was treated by paramedics for a series of serious stab wounds and staff at Sunderland Royal hospital continued attempts to save his life. He was pronounced dead at the hospital at 1.45am.Northumbria police have launched a murder inquiry and appealed for information on 03456 043 043 extension 69191. A postmortem examination was due to be carried out within hours.Detective Chief Inspector Peter Bent, head of the inquiry, said: "This is a tragic loss of a young life and we are working closely with the boy's family. A full investigation has been launched and we believe the victim and the arrested man were known to each other."The attack is believed to have happened inside his house and we are not looking for anyone else in connection with this death."The terraced house on a pedestrianised side street has been sealed off and forensic staff are examining the scene. A neighbour, sales consultant Nicola Winter, 36, said: "Jordan lived with his grandmother and her partner, they are in their 50s. She had an older son who lived there too, Jordan's uncle."The mum would come and visit for a while – but then we assumed Jordan had moved back to live with his mother for a while because we didn't see so much of him. I don't know where she lived."When we first moved into the street about 10 years ago, Jordan was just a little boy. I've got a son about the same age as him, and they used to play together. We can't believe that it's happened."A woman walking her dog said: "It's awful when you have seen him as a little lad kicking a ball around in the street. He might not have had a great start in life but he deserved a life."She said the boy had lived in the house with his grandmother in "a neighbourly community". Teenagers sometimes hung around in large numbers, she said, but the area was pleasant and there was very little trouble.A spokeswoman for the North East ambulance service said the boy had been taken to accident and emergency at the Royal with life-threatening wounds.Newriggs is one of the self-contained residential areas built as part of Washington's "new town" design.