William Hague, to use the language of the hour, has "previous" on this topic. He has spoken before - at the last two Conservative party conferences, in fact - of the lunacy of a system which punishes the victim but not the criminal, which appears tougher on the citizen who defends his home than on the villain who breaks into it. This, according to the Conservative leader's aides, gives him credibility when he voices the "anger and resentment among millions of law-abiding British people" following the conviction of Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer who shot and killed a 16-year-old intruder who broke into his home. That is what he sought to do with a tub-thumping speech in Warwickshire yesterday.It was classic Hague: all plain-speaking and apparent common sense. Of course it would be bonkers if burglars enjoyed more rights than their victims; of course it would be wrong for citizens to feel unprotected in their own homes. He will no doubt have struck an extra chord when he called for the law on self-defence to take into account not just the actual threat to homeowners from an intruder, but the threat as they see it. Others will agree that excessive use of lethal force should not always constitute murder; sometimes it should be reduced to manslaughter. Much of that will come over as utterly sensible. But offering a reasoned contribution to the improvement of our criminal justice system was not the object of yesterday's exercise. Instead it was a demonstration of cheap, exploitative politics at its worst. Mr Hague did not want to reduce public distrust in British justice - rather he wanted to fuel it. He sought yesterday to play to Britons' fears by exaggerating the threat that confronts us. In so doing, he gave succour to the acolytes of vigilante justice - a phenomenon far more likely to bring our legal system "close to collapse" than any of the mirage dangers conjured up by the leader of the opposition. For, as Clare Dyer and Alan Travis make clear on our news pages, almost every one of the concerns stoked up by the Tory leader yesterday is, to use another word of our time, bogus. He complains that burglars are allowed to roam the land, despite dozens of recent convictions to their name. He chooses to ignore the fact that, since December 1999, legislation initiated by the Tories forces a burglar convicted of a third offence to serve a minimum of three years. He demands "honesty in sentencing," choosing to ignore the January 1998 edict which obliges judges to spell out the minimum sentence any convict would serve - an edict known, coincidentally, as honesty in sentencing. The Tory leader also ignores the obvious remedy for the Tony Martin problem: abolition of the mandatory life sentence for murder. That would allow judges to be lenient in cases of excessive force used for self-defence. But Mr Hague ignores that: perhaps because it would please few of the core Tory voters he needs to win over in time for next month's local elections. For that is what all this is about. The Conservative leader is playing politics with justice. Like an American district attorney seeking to win votes by promising to electrocute a hated murderer, William Hague is exploiting a specific legal case for political gain. And, to use a word his aides are using themselves, Mr Hague has previous in this area. He has already whipped up lowest common denominator fears on asylum seekers. Now he is doing the same with the right to self-defence. Mr Hague is fast becoming the ambulance-chaser of British politics: searching for trouble, and milking it.