A convicted murderer who has been protesting his innocence from jail for the past 25 years walked free yesterday when the court of appeal accepted "compelling" evidence of police corruption, bullying and non-disclosure of vital evidence.Speaking shortly after being released, Robert Brown, 45, said he had been in "an abyss of hell" since he was arrested for killing 51-year-old Annie Walsh, a woman he maintains he never met. The court heard that Mr Brown was beaten up by officers from Greater Manchester police. They intimidated him into signing a confession, fabricated two other statements, and withheld an important piece of forensic material from his defence team. Details of widespread corruption within this particular squad were known to the Home Office and Manchester police in 1983, when one of the detectives in the case was sent to jail for perverting the course of justice. But Mr Brown's attempts to have his case referred back to the appeal court were turned down twice in the early 1990s. His lawyers insisted yesterday that the police had to reopen the murder inquiry and investigate the conduct of the officers involved; the force said it would "thoroughly examine" the appeal's findings before taking any decisions. Mr Brown, from Glasgow, was 19 when Walsh, a spinster, was found bludgeoned to death in her flat in Charles Barry Crescent, Hulme, Manchester, on January 31 1977. She had been hit over the head 16 times. Her blood was spattered on the walls, furniture and ceiling. Mr Brown was arrested four months later by detectives from Platt Lane police station; within 36 hours he had signed a confession. There was little corroborating evidence; a witness, Margaret Jones, who claimed to have seen Walsh with a man shortly before she died, attended a series of identity parades, and picked out a 37-year-old man. But no charges were brought against him. In a subsequent line-up she chose Mr Brown, saying: "He's the only one who looks like him." Mr Brown claimed at trial that he had been threatened, intimidated and physically abused by officers, who, he said, had written his confession and manufactured two other statements. In his summing up, the late Mr Justice Milmo told jurors that the case rested on who they believed - Mr Brown or the police. "That is the principal issue with which you will have to deal in your deliberations," he said. But neither he nor the jury knew that one of the central officers in the case, Detective Inspector Jack Butler, was "deeply corrupt", the court of appeal heard yesterday. "Not only had he been involved in serious corruption himself, but he had presided over a conspiracy of corrupt officers under his direct control at Platt Lane police station between 1973 and 1979," said Mr Brown's barrister, Ben Emmerson QC. "The evidence strongly suggests that these officers had engaged in a pattern of corruption _ over a period of years, which both pre-dated and post-dated [Mr Brown's] arrest." Mr Butler, who had been pro moted to detective chief inspector, was convicted in 1983 and sentenced to four years in jail, Mr Emmerson said. The prosecution of Mr Butler and two other officers was based on a report by Superintendent Peter Topping that detailed the culture of corruption in the station. This report was known to Manchester police and the Home Office, but its contents were not disclosed to the defence until last week, 20 years after it was written. Pressure brought to bear on Mr Brown was psychological as well as physical, the appeal court heard. During questioning by detectives, Mr Brown was shown a bloodied pair of jeans that officers claimed were his and proved he had attacked Walsh. In fact, they belonged to a woman who had just suffered a miscarriage. Mr Emmerson said prosecutors had also failed to tell the defence about a fibre that was found on the coat of the victim which matched a jumper seized from another suspect, Robert Hill. This cast "serious doubt on the reliability" of Mr Brown's supposed confession and would have been an important element of the defence case. Two professors of linguistics had studied Mr Brown's confession statement and concluded it could not have been taken down in dictation, as Mr Butler and two other officers had claimed. "If that is right, then the account of all three officers _ was false. This shakes the very foundation of the prosecution," said Mr Emmerson. The "stench of corruption" permeated the police inquiry. Quashing Mr Brown's conviction, Lord Justice Rose said: "This verdict cannot be regarded as safe. We could not possibly be sure on what we have heard that the jury, had they known what we know, would have reached the same verdict. It is, to put it at its low est, a possibility that they might have reached a quite different verdict." Mr Brown was eligible for parole 10 years ago, but refused to admit his guilt and stayed in jail. With the support of Mojo, the miscarriage of justice support group, he successfully lobbied the criminal cases review commission. The commission referred the case to the appeal court this year. "I would have stayed inside another 25 years if I'd had to," Mr Brown said. "The public has to start asking questions. Who is causing these miscarriages of justice? Who is being held responsible? The officers involved in this case must be brought to account." Earlier this year Mr Brown was refused bail to see his seriously ill mother Margaret, who wept when she heard he had been freed. "They didn't show me any compassion, any humanity even during my mother's illness, and that absolutely dis gusted me," said Mr Brown, who is entitled to compensation for the loss of his liberty, loss of earnings and psychological damage. "Money will not compensate me for the loss of my life," he said. "It will not compensate my mother and it will not compensate the victim or the victim's family. "They have been forgotten in all this." A statement from Manchester police said: "No decision has yet been made whether to reinvestigate the murder of Annie Walsh or to review other cases investigated by the officers involved." Mr Brown intends to return to Scotland to see his mother.