There's a moment in the film Groundhog Day when Bill Murray's character – doomed to relive the same day again and again – abandons decorum. A man approaches him in the road, expecting conversation. And Murray, beginning to lose his wits, punches the guy in the face.I pondered the scene once or twice last week, with the news dominated by Lord Rennard and ongoing allegations of his having groped women. If true (Rennard denies wrongdoing), what can he have been thinking? On what plane of consequence-free reality, in which fanciful movie, does he imagine he exists?I feel sorry for the women involved and distressed by a suggestion that, Rennard regardless, this kind of thing is common stuff; that being cheesily felt up is a recurrent feature of some women's lives. My sympathies are with those who'd rather just have the meeting, thanks, and not the paw under the table.But I can't help wondering about the men involved in cases such as this. How do you get to such a remove, expecting an unbidden fondle to be answered by anything other than complaint, a discharge of spit, the justified twisting and breaking of your fingers?Is it vanity? A sense of being irresistible? The strangest notions of personal sexual appeal can develop if not checked by logic, frank discussion or mirrors. We can be sure, anyway, there's a degree of delusion involved. Female colleagues, female strangers, look at all these birds, not being touched by anyone yet and desperate for it.Maybe it's frustration. There is a theory that domestic violence occurs when men run out of words and we could be dealing with a related strain – the dull-minded bloke, imagining himself a romantic but getting all tired at the thought of wordy passion, flexing his fingers instead. Having never thought to be interesting, interested, funny, kind, the groper presumes that he's taking some shortcut to intimacy. Or is it about power? Risk? Grimly fishing for signs of sexual interest?I'm 31, still telling myself that I count as young, part of the coming lot and not the established lot. And I'd love to think that this type of behaviour was a generational thing, shortly to be flushed out, a perplexing archaism, like smoking in cinemas.Maybe this is overly hopeful and there are actually many 31-year-olds going about the place palms first. But I'm going to take a risk and say that this peculiar weakness is more likely to be one of yours if you grew up in that era of Miss Moneypenny murmuring: "Oh, James!" when she was petted, pinched and generally handled like a briefcase.From what I gather, the casual molesting of women in Britain used to go unremarked, on the whole, and unpunished, on the whole, and was thus assumed to have society's blessing. Days of Rennard headlines have at least invited out some very loud voices, to make it clear to those who are hard of hearing. This isn't allowed.And it isn't sane. I keep wanting to get down the word "horrified", but that wouldn't be totally true. Really, I'm stuck at bafflement. You'd never – I don't know – poke a stranger in the eye. Jump up and down on their toes. You wouldn't do a Groundhog Day and start throwing punches in the street. None of this is allowed.