It is over 30 years since the first study of racism and the police in this country; more than 20 years since Lord Scarman held the first major public inquiry into relations between the police and black people; nearly as long since the Policy Studies Institute's pioneering research placed race at the heart of police-public relations; more than 10 years since the death of Stephen Lawrence and more than four since the Macpherson report into his killing charged the Metropolitan police with institutional racism. Each landmark was the result of a long build-up of concerns that cumulatively pointed to the inadequacy of police responses to racial issues. Each was followed by a host of initiatives designed to clarify and correct the problems in police culture and practice. Much has changed in those 30 years. The denial culture and political indifference of the early years has given way to intermittently vigorous action and well-resourced programmes at many levels, all designed to achieve the goal of non-discriminatory policing in a multiracial society.And, at the end of these decades of work, what have we achieved? We have achieved the culture that was exposed in The Secret Policeman. Tuesday night's BBC documentary about racism among police trainees was not just shocking. It does not merely show that there is work still to be done before the police reach their non-discriminatory goal. It shows that after all the efforts, the problem of racism on the beat is not merely as bad as ever, but in some respects worse. In his 1999 report on the Lawrence case, Sir William Macpherson reported that his team had "not heard evidence of overt racism or discrimination, unless it can be said that the use of inappropriate expressions such as 'coloured' and 'negro' fall into that category". No one who viewed Mark Daly's documentary and who heard the language routinely used by trainees at the Bruche centre in Cheshire can now regard Sir William's observation as anything but quaint. Four years of asylum-seeker panic, aided and led by politicians and the press, have left a mark. The language and prejudice exposed in the film were revolting, real and raw. Almost as chilling was the fact that such a significant proportion of the Bruche cohort into which Mr Daly tricked his way should have been implicated by his documentary. Much of this took place, remember, in a police environment. This devastating documentary has the potential to subvert every positive claim that is made on behalf of the police, with the charge that it is at best naive and at worst a cover-up. It is inexcusable that, faced with the imminent transmission of this film, the home secretary should have chosen to attack the BBC for a "covert stunt to get attention", rather than focus his anger on the extreme racism of so many trainees recruited with the aid of his department's funds. Their behaviour challenges the core of Mr Blunkett's credibility. If these are our bobbies, who could want them on the beat? We would be better off with such bobbies chased off our streets. The good police - and there are many of them - reacted as toughly and as quickly as they could yesterday. Senior officers went on the airwaves and said most of the right things. The immediacy of the response displayed in their letter on this page today is welcome. Now there will have to be a major review of police training and some form of covert monitoring, as suggested by the National Black Police Association, may have to be considered. A total of five of the shamed trainees resigned from three different forces, while three others still remain suspended. But the damage has been done and that damage is immense. The racist trainees came from the northwest of England and north Wales; but they have hung their former colleagues out to dry in every police force in the country.