The attorney general today spoke of her hurt and pain at being tricked into employing an illegal immigrant as her housekeeper.27-year-old Loloahi Tapui, a Tongan national, had been in the UK illegally for almost four years when she was employed by Lady Scotland, the chief law officer for England, Wales and Northern Ireland, a court heard.Asked about whether the case had caused her "embarrassment", Scotland replied: "It has caused me considerable pain but it has caused my family more, my sons and my husband. What she has done has been quite extraordinary."To have lied as she had lied and to damage someone who has tried to be kind to you is quite a difficult thing to have to accept."Scotland, who asked to be addressed as Patricia Mawhinney, her real name, denied accusations from Tapui's counsel that she had not questioned her immigration status at her interview in January last year.She also insisted Tapui had shown her a passport with a stamp suggesting she was in the country legally and could work legally. Tapui later claimed that she had never shown Scotland a passport or Home Office letter because she had lost it.The attorney general told the court: "This was incredibly upsetting to me. I couldn't believe what Lolo had done. This was another bare faced lie she had told me in order to get her the job."Asked about her failure to take copies of the documents she says Tapui produced at the interview, which landed her with a £5,000 fine, she said: "I thought this woman was married to a man in the legal profession."It never crossed my mind that a lawyer in this country would be married to an illegal immigrant and then pass her off as a cleaner to the attorney general. You would have to be brain-dead to do something like that."It never crossed my mind that she was anything other than what she said she was. I made a mistake for which I am very, very sorry. I can't tell you how sorry I am."Scotland sacked Tapui in September last year after a newspaper approached her preparing to run a story about the cleaner's immigration status.The peer said: "I was shocked when I heard this, but assumed it to be patently untrue."The court heard that when she pressed the Tongan about the documents, including the passport she was shown at the interview, Tapui admitted she had lied.Scotland said: "She said 'I lied to you. I told you I hadn't needed a passport and that I had lost the passport.'"Earlier, Scotland said she had "bitterly regretted" not making copies of the documents Tapui had given her. She said that she had examined them and believed everything was in order.She added that she was going through a difficult couple of months of family bereavement at the time, a jury at Southwark crown court heard.Tapui denies one count of possessing a false ID document with intent and one count of fraud.The trial continues.