When Sharon and Stephen Anderson were asked by private detectives to target a failed business tycoon, they went to extraordinary lengths to uncover the state of his finances.First, Sharon Anderson deceived the Sky TV call centre into giving her information about the bank of a subscriber called David Hughes. Then, she conned Barclays into handing over details from his business and personal bank accounts, including current balances, direct debits, transactions in and out, and savings.The Andersons ended up providing details of 11 of his bank accounts, obtained by making bogus phone calls, and charged up to £150 for each piece of financial data.But when Mr Hughes, former chairman of the collapsed Allsports football shirt empire, discovered the invasion of his privacy, a remarkable trail was uncovered.The husband and wife team, who traded as Analysis & Business Research, made £140,000 a year selling people's private financial data.The Andersons had been working for the Surrey-based Carratu detective agency, which is used by many City law firms acting for companies engaged in financial disputes or credit checks.Mr Hughes took Carratu to court to disclose who it was working for and discovered it had been hired by Mishcon de Reya, the respectable lawyers who famously acted for Diana, Princess of Wales in her divorce and are currently representing Sir Paul McCartney in his marital split. The legal firm had been instructed by a company which had loaned money to Mr Hughes to investigate his assets.Mishcon made clear it knew nothing of the unlawful activity which saw the Andersons yesterday plead guilty to more than 50 offences of obtaining information contrary to the Data Protection Act at Huntingdon magistrates court.But the Information Commissioner's Office is increasingly concerned about the way sensitive personal financial data is being accessed by people like the Andersons and said it is investigating "other organisations who buy this information".The Guardian has discovered that the couple's activities can be linked to prominent law firms Arnold & Porter and Mishcon de Reya.The court was told that the couple extracted information out of organisations including British Gas, Barclays Bank and Sky by pretending to be someone they are not. They then sold the data to private detectives, who often worked in turn for respectable firms of City lawyers, charging high fees to their clients.Another victim of the Andersons was Jon Sanders, who runs an insurance brokers in Yorkshire and says he was targeted by a large US insurance firm, CNA, in a dispute over a £9m deal. Mr Sanders said: "My wife felt abused. She felt completely raped by it. I am absolutely furious, shocked that a reputable, big insurance firm could do this. It is the people who instructed the blaggers who are the wrongdoers."CNA hired Gary Noakes, a private detective trading as Fleet Investigations of Epping. Mr Noakes's enigmatic motto on his website reads: "Set inside every castle keep is a small door." He subcontracted the job to the Andersons at their small office over a travel agents in St Ives, Cambridgeshire.The practice of subcontracting private detective work down a chain makes it difficult to pin responsibility on those who ultimately benefit.But Carratu detective agency's managing director, Paul Carratu, whose firm had revenue of £1.3m last year and who paid the couple thousands for regular jobs, denied knowledge of any illegalities. "We employed subcontractors, which is quite normal in the industry," Mr Carratu said. "We never requested any illegal information and when we got it, we destroyed it."Clive Thornton, the partner at Arnold & Porter who hired Carratu, said investigators were "commonly" used by all law firms. "I'm not aware of any illegality. Any information we have had has been obtained from public sources."Mishcon de Reya, whose asset-tracing specialist partner Dan Morrison is praised on the firm's website for his "aggressive approach to his cases", said it was now no longer using Carratu. The detective agency had not been supposed to contract out inquiries to third parties.A spokesman said Mishcon insisted corporate investigators complied with the law "and further prohibits any investigator from subcontracting any of those services to third parties".They refused to name the company which hired Mishcon to investigate Mr Hughes. The law firm had revenue of £24m last year and its partners made almost £300,000 average profit.Mr Noakes of Fleet Investigations said: "We're a surveillance company. When we have other types of work we sub it out to the Andersons. It is in their contract that they don't breach the Data Protection Act." CNA would not comment.Banks whose databases proved vulnerable to the Andersons' techniques included Barclays, Lloyds TSB and HSBC. The scams collapsed following a raid organised by Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, who has demanded the government increase penalties for such data theft.His initiative is opposed by a number of newspapers, some of whom are alleged to use "blagging" to obtain gossip about celebrities.Mr Thomas says he has the names of 305 journalists who have used illegal methods in the past.The victims Ruses used to obtain their financial detailsJon Sanders Aged 36. Bradford-based director of an insurance brokers. He said he was targeted by a large US insurance firm, CNA, in a dispute over a £9m deal. CNA hired a firm of private detectives which sub-contracted work to the Andersons. To get his data, Sharon Anderson pretended to be "Lisa from credit control" at the head office of Yorkshire Bank Home Loans Ltd. According to the recording, she said: "Can you do me a favour and see if you can locate a mortgage number with this surname and address [Mr and Mrs Sanders]? There's no account number on it for some reason." She claimed her computer system was down. She knew the answer to the security question posed by the bank employee. Later, Sharon Anderson rang once more, this time as "Elaine in credit control" and saying "Our systems have just frozen again." Armed with the account number, she said she needed to sort out a discrepancy urgently for solicitors, and conned the call centre worker into revealing when the Sanderses took out their mortgage and how much they had paid off.Nick Parker  Aged 58. Managing director of Coolair Equipment, Dukinfield, near Manchester. His air conditioning business was facing a £400,000 arbitration dispute with his former suppliers, the Japanese firm Daikin. He says it wanted to know how much money he had. Sharon Anderson got details of his and his wife's joint accounts by making bogus calls to Macclesfield council and to British Gas, asking about direct debits. The plan was to obtain their ex-directory phone number, and then use that to extract banking details.The information price listThe Andersons' list of charges for their work on the Sanders' personal financial data was seized at their office by information commission investigators:· Mortgage (amount borrowed and paid off, monthly payment)  £150· Tax payments (amount paid and income for latest year)  £100· Bank (latest balance, per account)  £100· Telephone (whether the Sanders had called specified numbers)  £100· Direct debits on gas and electricity bills £50 each