Five police officers are now under investigation over allegations that they were involved in a secret plot to spy on the family of murdered teenager, Stephen Lawrence.However the police watchdog conducting the investigation has named three of them, but not the other two. A year ago, the watchdog, the Independent Police Complaints Commission, disclosed that it had started the inquiry and identified three officers who have been accused of gross misconduct. Last week, the IPCC announced that it had expanded the investigation as the conduct of two more officers was now being examined.The Guardian asked the IPCC why it had not named the latest two.The IPCC said it had identified the first three as their names were already in the public domain. They had been named in last year’s official review - completed by Mark Ellison QC - that had been commissioned by home secretary Theresa May. Stephen Lawrence case: Theresa May orders inquiry into police spies It was the conclusions of Ellison’s review that had prompted the IPCC to start its investigation. Ellison’s review had alleged that police had gathered information on the Lawrences and their backers from an undercover officer from the Metropolitan Police’s Special Demonstration Squad. (See here and here for more details). The three are Richard Walton, currently heading Scotland Yard’s counter-terrorism command, Bob Lambert, a key figure in the police’s undercover operations, and Colin Black, a former Special Branch commander.However the IPCC said the latest two officers now under investigation were not named in Ellison’s review and therefore were not being identified. If anyone knows the identities of the pair, I would be interested to hear more. The only public information about them at this stage comes from the IPCC which says that they are retired from the Metropolitan Police and describes them as being “within the management structure of the SDS at the relevant time who may had some involvement or knowledge of the meeting with the undercover officer”. The IPCC said that in general, there are no hard and fast rules on whether it names individuals who are under investigation - sometimes they have, for example, such a senior rank that it would be in the public interest to identify them. 