Police have charged a woman after a 10-year-old girl was mauled by two rottweilers in an attack that has left her needing plastic surgery.Rhianna Kidd was attacked by the dogs while riding her bicycle in Dundee yesterday. The primary school pupil was being treated for a fractured jaw today and doctors say she will need plastic surgery.It is understood that the dogs will be put down and the woman, 33, has been charged by Tayside police under the Dangerous Dogs Act for failing to keep the animals under control.The girl's grandmother Irene Grady saw the dogs set upon her granddaughter as the child pedalled towards her home. Rhianna had been dropped off by her father moments earlier.Grady told the Courier newspaper: "One [of the dogs] started biting her arms while the other went for her legs. Someone in a car pumped their horn and they stopped, but when she got up they just knocked her back down. When I got to her I didn't know what to do. I just kept repeating to the dogs, 'Be good, be good.' They let her go and I managed to get her to the house. Once we were inside, the rottweilers were peering in the living-room window. We were so scared."Grady said her granddaughter had bites at the back of her ears and under her chin.Local politicians said they were "appalled" by the attack.A new law on dogs was passed by the Scottish parliament earlier this year and is being implemented by local authorities. Under the Control of Dogs (Scotland) Act, councils will have to compile a list of potentially dangerous dogs.A written notice will be issued to owners of dogs that have been out of control and councils will have the authority to order the animals' destruction if they fail to comply with safety measures.Dundee West MSP Joe FitzPatrick said: "This horrific attack has appalled everyone and our sympathies go to Rhianna and her family. The new bill reforms the law around dangerous or out of control dogs, and gives local authorities greater powers to act."Tayside police said investigations into the attack were continuing and appealed for witnesses.