The overall crime rate has fallen by 10% in the last two years, with striking falls in most key categories. But people remain stubbornly fearful they will be targeted, a major study reveals today.Reductions in burglaries - by 21% - and car theft and violent crime contributed to a drop in the total number of incidents to 14,716,000, the lowest for more than nine years. Robberies rose by 14%, though this may be a statistical blip due to an increase in attacks on a small number of 16-year-olds. The figures, published in the biennial British Crime Survey, were hailed by the home secretary, Jack Straw, who has been under pressure from the Tories all year, particularly since the conviction of Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer who shot and killed a teenager who had broken into his home. Despite the furore surrounding his case and claims that rural crime is soaring, the survey shows crime in the countryside has fallen consistently since 1995.People in rural communities are much less likely to be burgled or become the victim of violence, researchers found. Predominantly rural areas like Wales, the south-west and East Anglia, experienced some of the lowest levels of all types of crime. Mr Straw said the fears of people in isolated rural communities could not be dismissed and insisted the government would not be complacent. But the figures give him a strong defence to claims he has been unsympathetic to the plight of country folk. "The problem is that although the chances of being a victim are less than in urban areas, people nevertheless feel more vulnerable because they have fewer neighbours and police response times are likely to be longer than in urban areas," said Mr Straw. He added: "People are becoming less and less tolerant of crime. There are changes, particularly in the tolerance levels of violent crime, which is leading to more reporting." Mr Straw also pledged that the encouraging figures would not affect his determination to increase police numbers, which have fallen since Labour came to office. The survey, compiled by the national centre for social research and the office for national statistics, is regarded as the best indicator of trends because it tests public experience through a sample of more than 19,000 people aged 16 and over. Police crime figures always show much lower rates because forces do not record every incident reported to them. Some crimes are not reported at all because the victim regards them as too trivial. Although there is a huge difference in overall totals between the BCS and the police, both indicate crime rates are falling.  More secure Improvements in home security and effective targeting of repeat offenders by the police is thought to have been responsible for the fall in the number of burglaries; the total number fell to 1,284,000 from 1,628,000. The 15% fall in the number of stolen vehicles and a 16% drop in the number of thefts from vehicles probably reflect a commitment by manufacturers to make new cars more secure. Although the overall number of violent crimes in England and Wales dropped by 4% between 1997 and 1999 to 3,246,000, including falls in assaults and woundings, the BCS identified rises in two specific areas. "Stranger" violence, where the victim and attacker do not know each other, rose by 29%. In more than half of these cases, the offenders had been drinking and the victims were almost all men. Robberies also rose, but Paul Wiles, research director at the Home Office, cautioned against reading too much into the figure. Because robbery is relatively rare, the rise had been driven by reports from 15 teenagers. "The 14% increase would be reduced to 2% without the contribution of the 16-year-olds. While these incidents might be viewed as bullying, they do meet the legal criteria of robbery." The survey concluded that men aged 16 to 24 and single mothers are the most likely victims of crime. The BCS highlighted, though, problems the government has in changing perceptions of crime. One third of the people sampled believed crime rates had risen between 1997 and 1999, and one in 10 were so concerned about being targeted that it affected their quality of life. Although identifying reasons for falling crime is an inexact science, the Home Office believes the booming economy and more focused policing strategies have been important factors. Mr Wiles said the trend had been reflected in other European countries and the US and thought it was possible there had been a cultural change which had led to crime "simply becoming a less fashionable pursuit for high risk age groups".