Seventy-eight organised criminal gangs, raking in hundreds of millions of pounds a year, are threatening the development of normal civilised society in Northern Ireland, a report out today reveals.The RUC report identifies the gangs, 43 of which have current or historical links to republican or loyalist paramilitary organisations; significantly, 35 have no such known connections. Police are to target the province's top 20 ringleaders as part of a new government-led multi-agency crackdown to combat the spread of drug dealing, extortion, cross-border smuggling and other large-scale criminal ventures. Thirty years of terrorism have left a web of networks in which organised crime can thrive and a climate of fear and secrecy that makes fighting such crime very difficult. "The Troubles might be coming to an end but we're left with the lasting legacy of terrorism - organised crime," explained Raymond White, RUC assistant chief constable and head of CID. "Paramilitaries have lived their whole lives raising money through intimidation and racketeering. The networks are still there, so they're now making money for themselves rather than for their organisations, and the ready availability of guns means it's easy to resort to violence. "Fewer checkpoints and security measures mean greater freedom for criminals, and there are burgeoning opportunities for increasingly sophisticated crimes, with the development of technology and international links." RUC analysis shows that more than two-thirds of an estimated 400 gangsters are mixed up in selling drugs, 55% in counterfeiting and forgery, 50% in money laundering, just under half in car thefts, 23% in arms trading and 17% in extortion. Most groups are implicated in many types of crime, and there are clear links between certain undertakings, such as drugs and money laundering, car theft and fraud. Certain paramilitary factions are also associated with certain enterprises; for example, loyalists with drug dealing and republicans with cross-border smuggling. But many of those operating other crime schemes, such as car theft, have no terrorist connection. While Protestant paramilitaries do not control the whole drugs scene, they have substantial investment and often allow others to operate "franchise" arrangements on their patches. Newer dissident groups, such as the Loyalist Volunteer Force, are heavily involved because of the quick cash injection drugs can provide. Smuggling of contraband, including illegal fuel, cigarettes, alcohol and cattle, and social security fraud is costing the public purse more than £350m a year in lost taxes and excise duties, and unlawful benefit payments. Two gangs are especially active in cattle smuggling in the south Armagh region, a specific risk at present because of the danger of spreading foot and mouth disease. The much cheaper cost of petrol and diesel in the Republic of Ireland means that laundering - taking identification dye out of fuel and then smuggling it across the border - is prevalent in the south Armagh area. Last year, police uncovered 13 big fuel-laundering plants with the capacity to produce more than 40m litres, and in January a further two mixing and one laundering plant were dismantled.  Seized Cigarette and alcohol smuggling is also severely squeezing hundreds of small traders. In the past 12 months, 50m cigarettes have been seized in the province and 60m cigarettes bound for Northern Ireland have been seized elsewhere.Holiday flights from the Canary Islands are an established route for smugglers. Last October 900,000 cigarettes were seized at Belfast international airport from passengers coming from Gran Canaria, the biggest seizure from one flight at any UK regional airport. Some of the crime is ingenious; car theft schemes, for instance, where vehicles are brought from Great Britain to Northern Ireland, re-registered and then taken south of the border and resold, having been reported stolen. "These guys could do exceptionally well as entrepreneurs if they were operating within the law," Mr White said. All these scams have a knock-on effect on legitimate business, but it is much more difficult to estimate the full extent of private sector losses, primarily because many victims are too frightened to report blackmail and threats. Almost half the cases reported to police are withdrawn before investigations can get under way. The RUC has just sent out a confidential survey to business people and hopes to assess the results in the next few months. The building trade alone, which is particularly vulnerable to paramilitary intimidation, loses millions of pounds a year. "It is widely acknowledged that in parts of Belfast, organised paramilitary crime retains an important, often decisive role, in deciding who works, where and when," admits the taskforce report. The former Northern Ireland secretary, Peter Mandelson, set up the taskforce last year to attack the "mafia-like virus" which he said could undermine peacetime society. It includes the police, customs and excise, the inland revenue, and trading standards authorities, among others, who will work together to try to thwart the gangs at each step of their operations. Ulster's security minister Adam Ingram, who is heading it, said today's report "shines a light into the dark side of Northern Ireland" but admitted it would take public cooperation for criminality to be rooted out. Traditional lack of nationalist confidence in the police, the massive reduction in officers under the new reforms, and a shortage of money are still big problems. The Social Democratic and Labour Party and Sinn Fein are still refusing to join the ruling police board for the revamped service, which will see the original 13,500-strong RUC cut to around 7,500. The existing police authority says a further £20m is needed to meet this year's budget requirements. Mr White admitted the taskforce would have to wage a long battle and overcome significant obstacles, not least the fear created by 30 years of terrorism. "It is about educating people about the true cost of crime and its overall effects," he said. "There is a culture among certain sections of society - people who don't tax their cars, pay their TV licences, buy suspect goods in the pub. But those people have to realise how much this is costing their community. It eats away at money for new schools and new hospitals. "Then, there is the conspiracy of silence which is part of the legacy of Northern Ireland. It takes personal bravery on the part of victims to break that and speak out. We know there is no quick win but we will never have a normal society unless these issues are tackled." The price of gangsterism• £350m of public money lost to fraud every year • Last year police uncovered 13 fuel-laundering plants with capacity to produce 40m litres of illegal fuel • More than 50m cigarettes seized in Northern Ireland and a further 60m bound for province recovered by police in past 12 months • More than £4m worth of fake CDs, electronic goods, designer clothing seized in past two years