One of London's popular celebrity haunts has been shut down by police under new powers following a three-month undercover operation into drug dealing on the premises.Trap nightclub in Wardour Street, Soho, famous for its clientele of soap stars and minor pop bands, was raided by officers from Scotland Yard's clubs and vice unit at 11.30pm on Thursday. Earlier detectives arrested five people - two men in a nearby street and two men and a woman at a flat in Russell Square - on suspicion of possession of drugs with intent to supply. It is understood at least one gun was also found. Three of those arrested are thought to have worked at the club in some capacity, which is part owned by Fran Cosgrove, a former bodyguard for the Irish boy band Westlife. The five suspects, all aged in their 20s, were being questioned by detectives at a central London police station last night. A website describes the split-level club with its leather sofas as having a "chic and vibrant" atmosphere, popular with celebrities such as wannabe club queen Jodie Marsh as well as manufactured pop bands Westlife, Triple 8, Girls Aloud and Black Eyed Peas, while Vin Diesel, the Hollywood action star, even held the launch party for his latest film there. But a picture was also emerging yesterday of a club where drug dealing was open and rife, with a history of disturbances and serious assaults on both staff and customers. "We have to be realistic about drugs, they are always going to be part of the club world," said Superintendent Chris Bradford, the man in charge of the drugs and clubs unit who led the raid. "But when it gets to the stage where young people can't even get through the foyer without being offered drugs then obviously we are going to take an interest." Undercover officers, who began surveillance inside the nightclub three months ago after tip-offs from members of the public, witnessed drugs being sold openly, with the management apparently doing nothing to try to stop it. "Certainly nobody seemed too perturbed by it," Supt Bradford said. "Nobody was worrying about prying eyes, so I suppose you could say it was being done openly." The police operation, codenamed Asiento, culminated with Thursday night's arrests and the issuing of a closure order under section 1 of the Antisocial Behaviour Act. The act, which came into force last year, is used in the main to close down crack houses, but police believe it can also be applied to clubs where the use of class A drugs is rife. "This is the first time that we have used new powers given to us under the Antisocial Behaviour Act in this way," Supt Bradford said. "The club is not only associated with drug dealing but also serious disturbances and even, we believe, assaults. I believe this new legislation is best suited for the closure of such a dangerous and irresponsibly run club." The raid on Trap is just the latest drugs scandal to engulf London's celebrity haunts. Three years ago Home in Leicester Square - labelled the king of Britain's so called superclubs - had its entertainment licence revoked after a similar undercover operation found drug dealing was rife at the venue. The club, the launch of which was attended by stars such as The Prodigy, The Chemical Brothers, Jay Kay, Denise Van Outen, Rod Stewart and Ronnie Wood, was forced to close. Two years ago Soho House, the chic London members' club, was forced to introduce a stringent anti-drug policy after the two-year-old daughter of actors Jude Law and Sadie Frost swallowed an ecstasy tablet at a children's party. "We will keep on working to make sure that central London's nightclubs remain safe places for the thousands who visit every weekend," Supt Bradford said yesterday. "No-one should have to tolerate their night out being plagued by a drug dealer." The Guardian tried to contact the management of the club yesterday but was unable to get a response.