The father of a boy who drowned after being pushed from a bridge in Dorset by two teenagers yesterday branded their sentences of eight months and 18 months "an insult".David Berry, 16, was "frogmarched" by the two 17-year-olds along the Colber Bridge in Sturminster Newton and pushed into the river Stour. His body was found three hours later. Sentencing the two boys at Bournemouth crown court, Mr Justice McKinnon told them: "The consequences of what you both did will not go away. The family has lost a dearly loved son." But John Berry, the victim's father, said the sentences were "an insult to Dave". Speaking outside the court, he said: "I think it's disgusting. I would have thought they'd receive a decent sentence, but obviously not." David was relaxing with friends from Sturminster Newton high school on a hot day in June last year after sitting a GCSE exam when the two teenagers, who cannot be named for legal reasons, decided to "get Dave". The court heard that the boys, who had been drinking lager one of them had stolen from a local shop, picked up David and carried him halfway across the bridge. David shouted at them to get off him and told them he could not swim. He clung desperately to the railings of the bridge, but they prized his fingers away and lifted him over the railings, chanting "Berry needs a swim" and "let's chuck him in" before dropping him 11ft into the water below. When he failed to resurface, "panic and pandemonium" broke out among the pupils. One student, who could not swim, managed to grab hold of David for a while before he disappeared back under the water. The court heard that one of the boys - who later pleaded not guilty - did "virtually nothing" to try to rescue David. His body was dragged from the water after a three-hour search involving all three emergency services. One of the boys claimed during the trial that they and David had been "mucking about". But the judge told them yesterday: "I regard it as obvious that it was dangerous. It will not do to say that this was play fighting, this was fun, this was all a laugh. It was no such thing. It was a serious risk-taking with the life of an innocent 16-year-old which should never have happened, a life which has now been lost." One of the boys pleaded not guilty to manslaughter but was convicted unanimously by a jury on Wednesday. He was sentenced to 18 months. The judge told him: "You do need to watch out. Your temperament and your over-confidence may let you down, as it certainly did on this fateful day." The other 17-year-old, who had pleaded guilty to the same charge at an earlier hearing in November, was detained for eight months. The judge gave him credit for his early guilty plea and his "genuine remorse" for the boy's death. David was a popular, quiet pupil who had a statement of special educational needs. He lived with his father, stepmother, 14-year-old stepbrother and nine-year-old half-brother near Shaftesbury in Dorset after being taken out of care by his father aged four-and-a-half. He had been due to start a job as a trainee mechanic after his exams. Mr Berry, 40, a mechanic from Fontmell Magna in Dorset, said: "They have got no idea about what this has done to me. They have nailed me to a future and there is no end." He claimed that David had missed school in the months leading up to his death because he was being bullied. He said he was being "pushed around" after school by one of the boys who later pushed him from the bridge. He said: "They were taking the piss out of his hair, they were calling him spotty, scabby, calling him thick and a div." But Stephen Carrington, headteacher at Sturminster Newton high school, denied that David, whom he described as "a quietly determined lad", was being bullied.