Britain's biggest group of family lawyers is calling for prenuptial agreements to be made legally binding. The contracts between couples about to marry have become increasingly popular in Britain but have no formal legal status. "Pre-nups" are binding in parts of the US and Canada and in Australia, but in Britain the courts have traditionally seen them as against public policy. The 5,000-strong Solicitors' Family Law Association (SFLA) says in a report that the agreements should be enforceable in the courts of England and Wales, except where upholding an agreement would cause significant injustice. In 1998 the government floated the idea of making them enforceable to cut the cost of divorce cash battles. But the proposal was not taken up after judges said they "lacked enthusiasm" for it as a body, although a minority favoured it. The SFLA, whose membership includes most specialist family solicitors in England and Wales, aims to promote "a non-confrontational atmosphere in which family law matters are dealt with in a sensitive, constructive and cost-effective way". David Salter, chairman of the SFLA law reform committee, which produced the report, said: "Our report comes out of a growing sense of unease among divorcing couples about the unpredictability of the courts' approach to the financial aspects of divorce. "People want certainty and the ability to decide them selves what a fair outcome would be if the relationship ended. "There is a need, at times, to protect the weaker person in a marriage, but where a couple choose to make an agreement in the full knowledge of its effect, they should be entitled to have it upheld by the courts." Only a handful of cases involving pre-nups have come to court, because few couples have them. Lawyers say the numbers are growing but many are deterred by the lack of certainty about whether they would be upheld. In the few cases that have reached court, judges have been willing to enforce at least some terms of premarital agreements if they considered them fair. In a landmark case in 2000, the high court largely upheld an agreement signed by a north London property tycoon worth up to £150m, who had been reluctant to marry, and his pregnant wife-to-be, who had no job but a £1m trust fund from her father. She was awarded only the lump sum she had signed up to in the agreement - £120,000 after a two-year marriage - and a London home worth £1.2m, which would revert to her ex-husband when their son grew up. All she got on top of the agreement, which was signed the day before the wedding and did not mention yearly maintenance, was £15,000 a year to run the house. But the law still "falls short of providing the level of certainty couples want when they make an agreement," says the SFLA. Judges have a wide discretion and the lack of certainty about what a court would decide encourages divorcing couples to resort to expensive court battles rather than reach their own settlements. The SFLA says public anxiety about the courts' approach to finance on divorce has escalated since Karen Parlour, former wife of the footballer Ray Parlour, broke new ground by winning a share of his future earnings this year. Sarah Anticoni, a committee member, said: "Making a premarital agreement may not seem very romantic in the run-up to a wedding but, for some, it can amount to sensible financial planning. "When couples split, the best outcomes are found when they are able to agree themselves on what is fair. We believe that the courts should be seen as a last resort. Allowing couples to have their agreements upheld will help minimise conflict on divorce." She added: "We know the government shares our view that failed marriages should be brought to an end with the least amount of distress to the couple and their children. We hope they will consider our proposals as part of the solution to a complex problem." 'Til lawyers do us part - the rise of the pre-nup What is a pre-nuptial or pre-marital agreement? A contract signed by a couple before their marriage in which they agree who should get what, when and if they divorce.  What is the legal status of such agreements? Pre-nups are not legally enforceable in Britain but in the last five years judges have shown a growing willingness to take them into account in the few divorce cases involving pre-nups that have come before the courts.  What sorts of couples enter into them? At present, foreigners, rich men who are marrying poorer women, wealthy women marrying less wealthy men, and older couples who have been married before and want to make sure their children inherit their assets. But if they became legally enforceable they would probably be much more widely used.  Why enter into them if they are not legally binding? Lawyers advise their clients they have nothing to lose by signing them. Judges are increasingly willing to take account of them, they might be made legally binding in Britain in future, or the couple could move to another country where they are enforceable.  In what circumstances are they more likely to be taken into account? If the weaker party was not pressured into signing; if both had independent legal advice and fully disclosed their assets to each other; and if the terms do not seem too unfair when the divorce takes place.