The parents of murdered teenager Shafilea Ahmed today issued a statement saying they had no involvement in their daughter's death, after detectives revealed that someone had tried to hide her body in undergrowth.The 17-year-old's body was discovered three weeks ago by a Cumbrian river, but was only positively identified yesterday after forensic tests. She had been missing from her home in Warrington, Cheshire, since September 11 last year. Shafilea disappeared following a trip to Pakistan, where she was introduced to an arranged marriage suitor. Later she drank bleach and wrote poems saying she felt trapped.Shafilea's parents, Iftikhar, 44, and Farzana, 41, were arrested on suspicion of her kidnap at the family home in December. They were later released on police bail. Today her parents released a short statement through their lawyer after a police news conference revealed new details of the inquiry. The statement said: "They wish to confirm once more that they strenuously deny any direct or indirect involvement in their daughter's untimely demise."Speaking at the news conference, Detective Chief Inspector Geraint Jones would not comment on arrests that had been made or on her family's reaction to confirmation that the body that had been found was their daughter. He would only say that family liaison officers were in contact with the family. DC Insp Jones said"We are investigating all avenues and keeping an open mind as to who has killed Shafilea," he said.He has previously not ruled out the possibility the teenager was the victim of a so-called honour killing. In a recent interview he said: "The phrase 'honour killing' is not something I have introduced, but we have to investigate the possibility that Shafilea was killed because she has not consented to something." He declined to use that term today. DC Insp Jones, who is leading the inquiry, also gave new details about where her body was found by police by the River Kent in Sedgwick, near Kendal. "Following intensive scene examination by forensic experts, it is evident Shafilea's body had been concealed at that location for some months and perhaps from the night she went missing," he said. "This is therefore now a murder inquiry being led by the Cheshire constabulary, supported by our colleagues in Cumbria."DC Insp Jones said the focus of the investigation was "identifying people who were in Sedgwick" at that time and he appealed for information from the public. Officers are seeking to speak to people who may have been in the area near the time of her disappearance. "What we do know is that she finished work at 9pm ... she was last seen at home at 11pm and has not been seen since," he said, adding that a post-mortem examination had not been conclusive about the cause of death and that forensic tests were continuing. He would not discuss the crime scene in detail other than to say the body was decomposed and DNA tests were required to confirm her identity. After returning from Pakistan, Shafilea spent 10 weeks in intensive care at Warrington hospital after drinking the bleach. Her parents confirmed last week that jewellery found on the body was "similar" to that worn by their daughter. Cheshire police consulted with the Ahmeds after a blue topaz ring and gold zig-zag bracelet were discovered on the dead teenager.