The family of a teenage boy who bled to death after his throat was cut in an unprovoked attack in a bakery shop spoke yesterday of their shock and disbelief at losing a "gentle giant" loved by all who knew him. Jimmy Mizen, described by police as being of "immaculate character", was killed on the day after his 16th birthday when he went out to buy his first lottery ticket as part of his celebrations.Detectives said he had been in the Three Cooks shop in Lee, south-east London, with his brother Harry, 18, on Saturday morning, when he was challenged to fight by another youth. When Jimmy, a 6ft 4in tall rugby fan, refused, the other teenager left, but then smashed down the door, shattering the glass, and entered wielding an advertising board. In the "excessive" unprovoked violence that followed, Jimmy's throat was cut with glass.Paramedics and an air ambulance were called, but he died in his brother's arms at the scene. He was the 13th teenager to be murdered in London this year. Police were last night interviewing a "significant witness" believed to have seen much of the attack.Yesterday morning hundreds of residents joined members of Jimmy's family for an emotional mass at Our Lady of Lourdes Catholic church, where prayers were said for him and a two-minute silence was observed. He was baptised there and had served as an altar boy. Father Edward Perera, who led the mass, said: "I have never seen a parish so numb. After mass, people usually want to go home quickly. Today nobody moved."Distraught residents lingered outside the church after the service as Jimmy's father, Barry, told how his second youngest son, one of nine children, had been about to sit his GCSEs and was due afterward to begin an apprenticeship in the housing and maintenance department at Southwark council. Today was to have been his last day at St Thomas More RC secondary school in Eltham, where Barry Mizen is vice-chairman of the governors."He was the loveliest, gentlest giant. He was loved by everyone, by his school, the church and his family," said his mother, Margaret. "There was a sense of decency about him. He was very straightforward, very uncomplicated. Jimmy wasn't afraid of hugs. We loved him and he loved us back. He was very proud of his family."The teenager often worked in his father's shoe repair and key-cutting shop on Saturdays, but had been given the day off because of his birthday. His father described the attack as "mindless violence, just pure aggression". "A fellow picked up a glass dish and smashed it against the side of his neck," he said. "My other son Harry was with him. He is so upset. He said the blood was pouring out of him, they just could not stop it." Margaret Mizen, 54, said the family probably knew the attacker. She added later: "I just want to say to the parents of this other boy, I want to say I feel so, so sorry for them. I don't feel anger, I feel sorry for the parents. We've got such lovely memories of Jimmy and they will just have such sorrow about their son. I feel for them, I really do."Jimmy's brothers and sisters are Joanne, 35, Danny, 30, Billy, 28, Tommy, 26, Bobby, 24, Samantha, 21, Harry, 18, and George, eight. The youngest acted as an altar boy at yesterday's service.Speaking outside the bakery, Detective Chief Inspector Cliff Lyons said a number of addresses had been searched, but police were keeping an open mind about who and where the suspect was. Forensic investigators could be seen carrying out fingertip searches along the road, looking in hedges and under a manhole cover.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, joined thousands of Christians praying for an end to violence following the two most recent teenage deaths in the capital.Speaking at a global day of prayer held at Millwall football club, he said: "There are too many parents across London today who have lost their young children or young teenagers in the last year to gun crime and knife crime ... together we can do something and together we must do something."Death tollThe murder of Jimmy Mizen, 16, has brought the number of teenagers killed in the capital this year to 13January Henry Bolombi, 17; Faridon Alizada, 18; Boduka Mudianga, 18; Fuad Buraleh, 19; Sunday Essiet, 15February 23 Tung Le, 17; Ofiyke Nmezu, 16 March 13 Michael Jones, 18; Nicholas Clarke, 19; Devoe Roach, 17; Amro Elbadawi, 14 May 3 Lyle Tulloch, 15; Jimmy Mizen, 16