Six years ago, Barbara Louis was in a spiral she could not escape. Her youngest son Ashley, then aged 14, was in and out of court as he progressed from petty shoplifting to more serious burglary.Louis, now 52, was the first parent in Llanelli, Carmarthanshire, to be given a parenting order when they were introduced as a pilot in 1998. A condition of her year-long order - which, if breached, would have landed her in prison - was that she had to attend a parenting skills course. Research carried out for the Youth Justice Board found that the fear and anger some parents feel over the enforced nature of parenting orders deters them from attending courses. It recommends that the punitive taint be removed.Louis, however, was a willing participate - and her motivation was not the threat of prison. She says that when the magistrate issued the parenting order, she felt only relief. "I didn't have a clue about what a parenting order was, but I knew that I was going to do whatever I had to do to help my son and me. I couldn't do this on my own. I had done everything in my ability to help Ashley. I hadn't had any outside help until then, just the youth justice service, although they were very good to both of us."Louis had in the past spoken to Ashley's school and social services about his fall into crime, but admits: "I'm such a strong person that I find it difficult to ask for help. It's better when it's put in your lap, like the parenting order was."She still remembers the impact of the first parenting meeting she attended, which was arranged through the charity NCH on behalf of the youth offending team. " It was a complete turning point in my life," Louis says. "I found myself with a group of parents who were in a similar situation to me. I was determined that I was just going to sit back and listen and take in everything they were saying."The group gave me strength and made me feel like a human being again. Before, I had been made to feel that I was as bad as my son - that I was a criminal. People used to look at me as a parent and say: 'It's your fault you aren't doing it right.'" Better understandingThrough the weekly two-hour meetings she began to discover what Ashley was going through as a teenager. She says: "I understood what he was feeling and the changes that were happening to him. It explained quite a few things and also taught me how to approach situations in a different way to prevent having arguments. I had a better understanding of my son and the situation we were in, and that we were not alone."The parenting course, which lasted for 10 weeks, also gave Louis the opportunity to speak about how she felt. "I could say what I wanted without being judged; that was the problem before - everybody judged you, even your own family."Louis is now a parent mentor for the local youth offending team, and says she now has a marvellous relationship with Ashley, who has just come out of prison and is on probation.The Youth Justice Board research concludes that parenting programmes as part of a parenting order are unlikely to provide a quick fix for entrenched antisocial behaviour by young people. Louis agrees: "Prevention has to be better than cure. When [the parenting order] happens to you it's like a bolt out of the blue - nothing prepares you for police stations, courts and everything."