A woman who egged on her partner whose punch killed an innocent bystander after a supermarket queue-jumping row was found guilty of manslaughter today.Kevin Tripp, 57, was attacked by Tony Virasami, the partner of Antonette Richardson, who accused him of "messing with my wife".Then, without being given a chance to reply, Mr Tripp was hit by a "haymaker" which knocked him to the ground, slamming his head on to the floor and causing severe damage.But Mr Tripp, a ME sufferer, had not been involved in the incident at a Sainsbury's store in Merton, south-west London. Richardson had been accused of queue jumping by another man, Adam Prendergast, who quickly left after seeing Mr Tripp's fateMr Tripp, the father of a five-year-old girl, of Colliers Wood, south London, died shortly afterwards in hospital.Virasami, 38, who was on bail, tagged and under curfew for shoplifting at the time, was arrested at the scene. Richardson, 37, was detained the next day at their home in Catford, south-east London, and both were charged with manslaughter.Virasami eventually pleaded guilty but Richardson protested her innocence, insisting she had never wanted anyone harmed.Today the jury at Southwark crown court found her guilty by an 11-1 majority. She was remanded on bail to be sentenced with Virasami after reports.The court heard Richardson went to the store for cigarettes and claimed a "foul-mouthed" Prendergast accused her of pushing in."I was quite shocked. I didn't think I was pushing in front of anyone," she told jurors. "He got very aggressive."He was threatening to knock me out if I dared say anything else to him. I didn't say anything else to him. I was too frightened of his reaction."She said she rang Virasami who was waiting in a car outside and ask him to get her because she wanted to leave "safely".But when Virasami stormed into the store demanding to know who was responsible, she indicated Prendergast, shouting: "That is him, that is him." But Virasami thought she was pointing at Mr Tripp.Keith Lambert spoke of Mr Tripp being hit by a "haymaker punch, a wide sweep … against the man's head", accompanied by a "loud smack".Richardson maintained she was as shocked as anyone else at the turn of events. "I was shouting 'no', trying to shout 'stop, what are you doing?'."I was absolutely disgusted. I was absolutely mortified. I couldn't believe what he had done. I was totally shocked. I couldn't believe that he had hit someone. Not only that, but he had hit the wrong person," she said.But Michael Worsley QC, prosecuting, said comments overheard by witnesses showed she had not wanted Prendergast to get away with his behaviour.Store manager Philip Jeal said he told Virasami he had attacked an innocent person and that prompted Richardson to say: "Yes, we need to find the right guy."Worsley also suggested that Richardson's hasty departure from the store was "flight due to guilt on her part".