A 16-year-old boy described as a "perfect, peace-loving student" has become the 17th teenager to die violently in London this year.Ben Kinsella, brother of former EastEnders actor Brooke Kinsella, desperately phoned a friend and begged for help as he was chased by his attackers. He was repeatedly stabbed by a gang of youths as he ran from a nightclub along York Way, in Islington, north London, early yesterday. Friends of the teenager said they believed his murder was a case of mistaken identity and revenge for a bottle attack on another youth earlier in the evening.Witnesses told how up to 50 people were involved in a mass brawl near to the Shillibeers pub, which had been holding a dance night packed with a young crowd.Kinsella's headteacher, Bob Hamlyn, of Holloway School, Islington, described the teenager as particularly popular and bright. He was a "senior student" - a mentor responsible for the welfare of younger students at the school. "He was great at sport and excellent at art. He was a perfect, peace-loving, student," Hamlyn said, adding that Kinsella, who took his last GCSE on June 20 and was expecting A grades, hoped to be a graphic designer.His parents George, a cab driver, and Deborah, a youth worker, were described as a loving family. Brooke Kinsella, who played Kelly Taylor in EastEnders between 2002 and 2004 and her boyfriend, fellow EastEnders actor, Ray Panthaki, were among those who came to the murder scene to lay flowers.Police believe Kinsella was innocently caught up in a dispute between revellers leaving the pub and a group of youths outside. It is understood that a youth had been struck with a bottle outside an off licence earlier in the night.One of the victim's friends David Dugdale, 17, told how he received a call from Kinsella on his mobile phone just after 2am. He said: "He was panting hard and sounded like he was running away from people. He was just screaming 'help me, help me' and then the line went dead. It was horrific."The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, condemned the murder, the 12th stabbing of a teenager in the capital this year. He said: "I deeply regret that another young person has lost their life to violence and my thoughts are with the family of this young man."A witness, Gio Reilly, 19, told how he saw Kinsella lying on the pavement. "He had his top off and was unconscious with an oxygen mask over his face. It looked like there were several stab wounds to his body, mainly to his back. People were standing by him crying."Kinsella was pronounced dead after being taken to the nearby Whittington hospital.Another witness, Sean Taggart, 18, said the trouble started with pushing and shoving outside the pub and escalated to punching and then the use of bottles and sticks. "I saw Ben come out of the club. He was doing nothing wrong. He was just caught up in all of the trouble and a gang started chasing him down the road.Kinsella had appeared as a child actor in programmes including ITV's the Bill. Two youths - both aged 16 - have been arrested and last night remained in custody. A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We are keeping an open mind regarding the motive." Officers were yesterday searching for the murder weapon or weapons and had cordoned off the murder scene.