Women who have been charged with a criminal offence are entitled to be presumed innocent until proven guilty (Call for review of women in jail on remand, September 6). Only in exceptional circumstances should they be committed to prison while on remand. The injudicious use of prison custody for innocent women is inexcusable and contributes to the problem of prison overcrowding. Furthermore, women's prisons are in crisis, unable to offer a safe and decent environment to women entrusted to their care. Last year, a record 14 female inmates died, including my daughter Sarah, 18, apparently from self-inflicted deaths. So far this year, 11 women have died. Some of these women were on remand, as well as being mothers. The chair of the Magistrates' Association has commented that there needs to be an increase in provision and improvement in the quality of court-based diversion schemes for women with mental health problems. Prison deaths leave an ugly stain on the record of Blair's government.Pauline Campbell Malpas, Cheshire We are in touch with more than 400 women prisoners. The chaos caused by even a short period on remand is familiar to us, as we help pick up the pieces: sorting out rent arrears, finding accommodation for those made homeless, helping women maintain contact with their children. A succession of NGOs and government departments have reported on the abuse, addiction, poverty and mental health problems that characterise the lives of women prisoners, most of whom pose no threat to public safety. There is no further excuse for the lack of urgency on this issue. Cathy Stancer Women in Prison Helena Kennedy is absolutely right to call for a review of the use of remand. However, with up to three-quarters of women entering prison in immediate need of drug detoxification, it is quite clear that the answer lies in a radical response to the problems associated with drug addiction. At present, there are fewer than 2,000 places in residential treatment centres in the whole of England and Wales. Rob Allen Director, Rethinking Crime and Punishment