The landlord of Joanna Yeates has been released on bail after being held for more than two days by police investigating the murder of the 25-year-old, whose body was found on Christmas morning.Chris Jefferies, 65, a former teacher who lives above the flat Miss Yeates had shared in Bristol, had been arrested by police on Thursday.Joanna's family issued an emotional statement expressing their heartbreak over how their treasured daughter had been "stolen" from them. A week after the landscape architect's body was discovered, her parents also said they were "certain" her killer would be brought to justice.A separate statement from Joanna's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, who reported her missing on 17 December, described her as a beautiful woman in "mind, body and soul". He added: "I will always love her."In statements read out by a police family liaison officer outside the couple's favourite pub, the Cottage Inn on Bristol's dockside yesterday, her parents said they had been overwhelmed by the extraordinary support they had received from the public since their daughter went missing. She was "a beautiful and talented person who was destined to fly high", her parents added. They also admitted that they felt relief once the uncertainty over her fate had been resolved with the news her body had been found. "We dreaded going to our graves without knowing. In a very strange way, Jo's body being found was a relief," they said.Investigators stressed that the investigation was continuing as they issued a fresh appeal for members of the public to come forward with any useful information after Jefferies was released last night.Det Ch Insp Phil Jones said: "Firstly I would like to reassure the public that this investigation is very much ongoing. We have a team of over 70 police officers and staff working tirelessly to bring the person responsible for Joanna's death to justice.""The incident room has been inundated with thousands of calls from members of the public who have provided us with information. This information is being scrutinised and followed up by specially trained officers who are exhausting every lead and avenue that we are provided with.""I would once again urge anyone who may not have called us to make contact with one of my officers and provide us with any information you may have. You may think your information is insignificant but please let us decide. This will be treated in confidence."Detectives are particularly keen to speak to anyone who may have used Longwood Lane in Failand, Bristol, between December 17, when Joanna went missing, and Christmas Day.In a direct appeal to members of the public, DCI Jones said: "Did you see anyone or any vehicle acting suspiciously in the area?"We also know that there were large Christmas functions taking place at Long Ashton golf club, Bristol and Clifton golf club and Redwood Lodge. I would again urge taxi drivers and those who drove to functions to call us. They may have information that could prove vital."Jefferies's flat continued to be inspected today with crime scene investigators entering the premises – above the flat where Joanna and her boyfriend lived – carrying brown evidence bags.Jefferies was arrested after reportedly telling police he had seen three people, one of whom he believed was Joanna, leave the Canynge Road flat on 17 December, the night his tenant disappeared.It has since emerged that he helped her boyfriend to jump-start his car hours earlier that day so that the 27-year-old could visit his family in Sheffield. Police have impounded a silver Chrysler and a grey Volvo S40 belonging to Jefferies for examination. They have also asked Peter Stanley, 56, a neighbour, who helped Jefferies start Reardon's car, to drive his BMW to a city police station.However, Stanley, who lives next door to the flat Joanna rented, was today allowed to drive his vehicle home with officers stressing that the neighbour was a witness and not a suspect.In another development, officers quashed suggestions that detectives have linked Joanna's death to the unsolved murder of a 20-year-old woman who was killed just yards from where Joanna lived. Glenis Carruthers was strangled nearly 37 years ago on 19 January 1974, but police today firmly downplayed the possibility of a connection.Detectives are, however, believed to be investigating a theory that Joanna surprised an intruder when she returned home and was murdered to avoid the prowler being identified.Her parents also said today that it was unlikely police would release her body for some time. But their statement did reveal how they had been able to draw comfort from the happiness of their daughter's life before tragedy struck. It read: "We gain a little solace from the fact that the high point in Jo's life was her graduation in November, when her life was 'perfect'."Our grief and sadness includes the experiences which she missed out on, in terms of family and children and rising through her profession."For us, we will always miss the presences which came with her: hearing her voice, her lightness, and standing back with pride, watching her grow through life."