The bizarre behaviour of Mick and Mairead Philpott following the deaths of their six children included engaging in hospital food fights, going on shopping sprees while the community was raising funds for the funerals and singing Suspicious Minds in a pub karaoke session.Relatives who spoke out about their actions in the days following the tragedy included Mairead Philpott's sister, Jennifer Lobban. "She is a victim of Mick but at the end of the day when it comes to your kids she should have put them first," Lobban told the BBC's Panorama.She said that the couple never entered the hospital room where one of the children, Duwayne, lay dying in a specialist burns unit following the house fire in Derby last May, which the Philpotts were found guilty of starting. Asked what they were doing instead, Lobban said: "Discussing where to order Chinese and complaining that the hospital was crap because it had not provided them with food, just a room to sleep."As the community sprang into action to raise funds for the family in the wake of the fire, Lobban also told of her disgust at the couple's behaviour. "I was getting phone calls every day saying they were out, they were shopping and from that moment on I did not want to see them anymore … the lack of respect for the kids, it was disgusting," she said.Marie Smith, mortuary manager at Derby Royal Hospital, also spoke about how Mick Philpott appeared to pretend to faint when he saw their bodies for the first time and later engaged in horseplay with a police officer who he put into a headlock.Smith told Sky News that Philpott also once referred to the young victims as "little shits" and requested gin when she offered him water. The parents' visits were like a "circus", said Smith, who added: "To me it didn't quite match that he was coming to see his children who had died and he was engaging, it was almost like it was a social event."Mairead Philpott's father, Jimmy Duffy, also told Panorama that he refused to turn his back on his daughter despite claims by her, strongly rejected by her siblings, that he had abused her.He said: "She is my daughter. I couldn't give up on her. You can't give up on your own flesh and blood. I can't. I am not that type."