More and more people believe that crime is rising despite the fact that there has actually been a 22% fall since 1997, the British Crime Survey makes clear.The latest figures show that 35% of adults believe that crime has increased "a lot" and 34% believe it has increased "a little" - these are quite sharp increases compared with the results in 2001. The increasing belief that crime is rising is matched by falling levels of confidence in the police. Just under half (47%) say they do a good or excellent job - a marked drop on the 64% approval rating the force received in 1996. Although less marked, there has also been a steady decline in public confidence in prisons down from 38% to 26%. Surprisingly, confidence in judges has leaped from 20% to 29%. This is all the more surprising when set alongside the survey's findings about public attitudes towards sentencing by the courts. They confirm that public awareness that the courts do give immediate prison sentences for burglary and rape remains poor. In 2001, 74% of convicted adult burglars were sent to prison but the public believe that the figure is less than 45%. Similarly 98% of adult rapists go to prison but more than half the public think that fewer than 60% are jailed. On these results it is no wonder that the public still underestimate exactly how tough the courts actually are. There has however been a marked fall in those who think the courts are "much too lenient" down from 51% in 1996 to 35% now. When the public were asked what they thought was the main cause of crime in Britain today the blame was firmly placed on drugs by more than a third of voters. A quarter blamed lack of discipline from parents as the main route to criminal behaviour with "too lenient sentencing" named by 10%. The public put these three factors above unemployment or too few police as the main cause of crime. Overall public confidence in the criminal justice system does remain buoyant with 77% believing it respects the rights of defendants and treats them fairly. However only a third believe it meets the needs of victims and just a quarter are satisfied in the way juvenile offenders are dealt with.