Four years ago, taxi driver Chris Halliwell was jailed for life after admitting the brutal, sexually motivated murder of office worker Sian O’Callaghan.He abducted the 22-year-old from a nightclub in Swindon, stabbed her in the head, strangled her and left her partially clothed body on the side of a country road in Oxfordshire.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Sian O’Callaghan. Photograph: Family/PAO’Callaghan’s family at least had the relief of seeing Halliwell jailed for life and told that he would serve a minimum of 25 years before being eligible for parole. But it was very different for the family of a second young Swindon woman, 20-year-old sex worker Becky Godden, who went missing eight years before O’Callaghan’s murder. When he was arrested over the abduction of O’Callaghan, Halliwell told the police he had also killed Godden. He even led the senior investigating officer in the O’Callaghan case, Steve Fulcher, to a field in Gloucestershire where he said he had buried Godden’s body. Her headless remains were duly found.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Tributes in 2011 at the scene near Eastleach, Gloucestershire, where Becky Godden’s body was found. Photograph: Tim Ireland/PABut, extraordinarily, Halliwell could not be brought to justice over Godden’s killing at the time because of the way Fulcher had interviewed him.Fulcher believed at the time that O’Callaghan could still have been alive, so he ignored the rules and questioned Halliwell on a remote Wiltshire hillside without giving him the chance to seek advice from a solicitor or reading him his rights. Fulcher’s reasoning was that he believed O’Callaghan’s right to life outweighed Halliwell’s rights.As it turned out, O’Callaghan was already dead, and unfortunately for the officer, Halliwell backtracked on his confession to Godden’s murder. There was other forensic evidence to show the taxi driver had killed O’Callaghan, and he admitted her murder in October 2012. But it was ruled at that time that the confession over Godden could not be used in court and, to the despair of family and friends, Halliwell seemed to have got away with the woman’s murder.Since then, Wiltshire police have worked hard to make sure Halliwell was brought to justice. Their job has been to find the evidence in addition to the hilltop confession to show he had killed Godden. It has been a painstaking effort.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Becky Godden. Photograph: Wiltshire Police/PAOne of their first tasks was to try to piece together Godden’s last movements. Her mother last saw her in December 2002, when she gave her a lift after a court appearance. Detectives found a beat officer who patrolled the red light district in Swindon and his notebook showed he stopped seeing Godden on 27 December 2002. Officers traced a friend of Godden’s who remembered last seeing her early in January 2003 getting into a taxi outside a Swindon club after arguing with the driver. Detectives were to conclude that Godden was probably abducted and murdered on the night of Friday 3 January. In the early hours of that day, Halliwell’s Volvo ran out of petrol and the RAC breakdown service was called out. The location was the village of Inglesham, north of Swindon – just six miles from Oxo Bottom field in Eastleach, where Godden’s remains were found. Later that day, police found, Halliwell had gone to his GP complaining of a sore right hand that he said had been injured in a fight with a customer. He also had scratches to his face and the doctor recalled him being distressed. But police found Halliwell’s work logs from 2003 and discovered he had not worked that day. There was nothing to connect Halliwell forensically with Godden’s skeletal remains. But police still managed to link him to Oxo Bottom field through analysis of items found in his shed. It turned out the geological characteristics of the field, the site of a neolithic settlement, were unique – and traces of soil from the location were found on the spade and tape. Detectives also investigated Halliwell’s computers. They found he had viewed scenes of child sexual abuse and bestiality and had an interest in violent sex and rape. Officers spoke to a man who said in the mid-80s Halliwell had once asked him how many women someone would have to kill before becoming a serial killer. Chris Halliwell found guilty of Becky Godden murder The breakthroughs meant there was evidence to support the original confession. The trial judge, Sir John Griffith Williams, agreed that the jury ought to know that Halliwell was in jail for O’Callaghan’s killing and be allowed to hear most of what he had told Fulcher including the fact that Hallwell led him to Oxo Bottom. Put together, it must have made the jury’s verdict relatively simple. But the Halliwell story may not be over. When he appeared in the witness box, Fulcher suggested Halliwell may have killed others. Halliwell had told him that Godden’s body was buried 5ft deep. In fact her grave was just a few inches below the surface. To Fulcher, the disparity suggested Halliwell could have got confused between this burial site and others.Addressing Halliwell during the trial, Fulcher, who has left the force and is working in Somalia, told him: “What I inferred … is that Becky is one of your victims, as is Sian, and you got confused about the nature of this deposition. You described very clearly a 5ft hole. That led me to conclude that there are other victims.”In 2014, detectives found the pond where Halliwell disposed of O’Callaghan’s boots – and also retrieved dozens of scraps of material that could be women’s clothing, plus a shotgun, from the pond and surrounding area. There are a number of unsolved murders in the south-west, the most infamous being that of Melanie Hall, who went missing from a Bath nightclub in 1996, aged 25. 