Property owners have been the target of an increasing number of identity and registration frauds this year, prompting Land Registry to team up with the Law Society for the first time to warn consumers.The organisations claim fraudsters are targeting properties belonging to both individuals and companies, in some instances using forged documents. Land Registry has published a public guide for homeowners to help them protect themselves from fraudsters who attempt to sell or mortgage their property.The people most susceptible to registration fraud include older people who are in hospital or have moved into long-term care, homeowners who live abroad and absent landlords. People in these circumstances often own properties without holding a mortgage, making them easier targets.Those who have already been the victim of identity fraud may also be at greater risk, as well as executors or administrators responsible for a property where the owner has died and the property has not yet been sold. Company property may also face an increased risk of being targeted when unoccupied or undergoing redevelopment.The Law Society president, Linda Lee, said: "Land and buildings are usually the most valuable assets people own. They can be sold and mortgaged to raise money and can therefore be attractive targets for fraudsters. Solicitors are qualified in all areas of property law and are there to help you avoid potential problems and to protect your interests at every step. Solicitors are best placed to conduct conveyancing transactions and will be reminding property owners of their role in helping to prevent fraud and to protect their ownership in the same way that they protect their other most valuable possessions."Marco Pierleoni, chief land registrar and chief executive of Land Registry, said: "This is the first time Land Registry has collaborated with the Law Society in this way and demonstrates that we are committed to combating fraud by working with a wide variety of organisations. Our increased investment in counter-fraud measures has already resulted in preventing fraud attempts against properties valued at an estimated £20m. We hope this initiative will continue this trend by highlighting the importance to solicitors of being vigilant against the many ways in which fraudsters target the properties of vulnerable homeowners."Land Registry said there are a number of things you can do to help prevent fraud or forgery, including:• Register your title. Any person dealing with registered property would have to check the register of title maintained by Land Registry to confirm who the owner is. They would also be able to see if there were entries on the register that required them to obtain information or evidence to enable their transaction to be registered.• Keep your name and address on the register up to date.• Consider having more than one address on your title. For example, you might want to have the property address, the address you live at and even your solicitor's details on the title – although you should get their permission.• Put a restriction on your title. If you or your conveyancer think you are particularly at risk, a restriction will limit the powers of a registered owner of the land to deal with or dispose of it.• Be wary of signing any documents relating to your property.If you think you have been the victim of property fraud you should contact a solicitor or Citizens Advice Bureau as well as the police. It is possible that if an attempt is made to defraud you of your property, the property or your details may also be used in other fraudulent activity, such as identify fraud or creditcard fraud.