Domestic violence is receiving "little attention" from the government because of concentration on street crime and gun violence, it was claimed today.The crime reduction charity Nacro said in a report that this meant some of the most vulnerable people in society were not being properly protected. The report calls for the development of better services to support women in their homes, more services for children caught up in domestic violence, and investment in education and prevention campaigns. Underlying causes of domestic violence - such as overcrowded or poor housing, poverty and unemployment - must also be addressed, it said.Nacro spokesman Richard Garside said: "The most vulnerable victims of violence are not always the most visible. Many violent crimes that are committed behind a closed door and in private have received little attention. "We need a shift in policy away from the assumption that every form of crime has a simple policing or criminal justice solution. Clearly a police officer in every living room is not the answer to domestic violence." Homelessness statistics show 23% of homeless acceptances are due to relationship breakdown, with domestic violence an issue in seven out of 10 cases. Women and children fleeing violence in the home account for 16% of those on local authorities' homeless lists, according to gvernment figures. Domestic violence accounts for around a quarter of all recorded crime in England and Wales. An incident is reported to police every minute, according to figures. One in four women will face domestic abuse at some point in their lives and thousands of children witness violence and abuse, according to the government. The home secretary, David Blunkett, last week announced a £14m cash injection to tackle domestic violence. A consultation paper due in the spring will look at how the law can be changed to bring wifebeaters to justice. The latest three-year cash boost will help locally-based crime and disorder reduction partnerships develop strategies against domestic violence.