Inspectors found a long and troubling list of problems with Pentonville prison in north London when they carried out an unannounced inspection between June 7 and 16 this year.The building was infested with cockroaches and other vermin; half the prisoners spent the bulk of the day inside their cells; and many complained of a lack of respect from prison officers.Overall, the team of inspectors, working for the chief inspector of prisons, Ann Owers, noted "a failure to operate basic systems: a failure that was so endemic that prisoners at induction were told not to expect to have a pillow or to have their applications dealt with".The 108-page inspection report, published today, acknowledged that the Victorian jail had a number of inherent problems, many due to its age. "Although much refurbishment has taken place, the original four cellblocks are as they were when the prison opened in 1842," the report said.The failures cited by the report included:· "Throughout our prisoner survey, responses to most questions were significantly worse than the comparator for other local prisons. Most worryingly, prisoners reported much poorer relationships with staff than at the last inspection, and there was an unusually high number of allegations of assault and victimisation."· "Prisoners in our survey and in groups reported significantly worse relationships with staff than at the time of the last inspection. Only 43%, compared with an earlier figure of 64%, believed that most staff treated them with respect."· "Unemployed prisoners, who represented half of the population, had only an average of 2.5 hours out of cell while employed prisoners were out for about seven. The average across the prison was about five hours, far less than the over eight hours the prison was reporting."· "External areas of the prison were better cared for than at the last inspection. But many internal areas remained dirty and vermin-infested, and too many prisoners lacked basic requirements, such as pillows, toothbrushes - and, on one occasion, there was not even enough food to go round at the one cooked meal of the day."· "Prisoners were very dissatisfied with the quality and quantity of food ... There was no pre-select choice, so religious and other special dietary requirements were not always met."· "We were told that efforts were being made to eradicate pests but the prison was overrun with cockroaches and vermin. On our night visit, we found leftover meals and opened flour sacks in the kitchen attracting these pests."· "Forty-two per cent of prisoners said it was easy to get illegal drugs in the prison, which was significantly more than in 2005."· "First-night cells were better prepared. but there was no supportive first-night strategy and night staff did not know the location of new arrivals. In our survey, only 48% - against a comparator of 72% - said they had felt safe on their first night."