Police have found the body of a former adviser to two Labour home secretaries who went missing after his ex-partner had been found murdered at a country cottage they had shared.The search for Martin Collett, 35, covered the grounds of Hatfield House, home of the Cecil political dynasty, which is close to the cottage where the body of Angela Hoyt, 34, was found last week.Detectives had appealed to Collett, 35, to contact them, and revealed that Hoyt had filed a report of harassment on 20 May. She is believed to have died some time between 22 and 24 May. No details have been released about how she died.Hertfordshire Constabulary confirmed on Sunday night that the body of a man found just north of Hatfield railway station at 11.30pm on Friday was that of Collett.The Home Office said that both Hoyt and Collett had worked in the department. They met there six years ago, when he was working as briefings manager for the home secretary, preparing David Blunkett and later Charles Clarke for press conferences.Hoyt, had moved to the UK from her native Canada in 1999, and was a junior media officer at the Home Office. She later moved to the International Red Cross and became a senior public affairs and communications adviser. She had returned from a three-month stint on flood recovery projects in Pakistan shortly before her death.Her body was found at the cottage in Glebeland, Hatfield.Police broke into the cottage after Hoyt failed to reply to contact from family members. Thirty officers searched Hatfield Great Park after reports of a man acting suspiciously. Hoyt's family in Ontario, where her father worked for the Royal Bank of Canada, had been concerned about the relationship and Collett's behaviour.The Independent Police Complaints Commission has started an inquiry into police handling of Hoyt's harassment complaint.Commissioner Sarah Green said: "Because of the ongoing police operation to trace her former partner, we will not be issuing any further information at this stage. I would encourage any members of the public who can help the police find him to contact them immediately."Hoyt's family said in a statement: "She had a passion for human rights and wanted to use her work to help improve the lives of those less fortunate. She had strong opinions and convictions."Hoyt is survived by her parents, Barb and Dwight and her identical twin sister, corrAmi Watanabe, who is married with a daughter and son.