When a gang of armed and masked robbers burst into his village store and post office in Fairfield, Worcestershire, on the morning of 9 January demanding money, Ken Hodson-Walker was serving a customer a packet of cigarettes.A gun was fired and Hodson-Walker was hit in the left leg. His wife, Judith, called to their son, Craig, for help. He came downstairs in his boxer shorts with a cricket bat and was fatally shot through the heart by Anselm Ribera. Today, the gunman and the two other gang members were convicted of murder and attempted murder as it emerged he and an accomplice had previous convictions for robbery. The men will be sentenced on Friday at Birmingham crown court.The gang fled empty handed from the village. Ribera, 34, had a previous conviction for robbing a post office in February 2002. During that raid a concrete block was hurled through a glass security screen at the post office branch in Kings Norton, near Leicester, before he and another man made off with £4,300 in cash. Ribera admitted his role in the robbery and was jailed for six years, but was released from prison on licence in October 2005.At the time of the Fairfield murder he had lost his job as a drain cleaner due to a conviction that meant he lost his driving licence.Ribera had denied any involvement in the Fairfield crime and claimed at the time of the shooting that he had been out running. But CCTV footage showed him leaving his flat at 5.21am. He said he had nothing to do with Hodson-Walker's murder or the robbery, even though he was spotted at a BP garage with the gang while they stopped for fuel en route to Fairfield.During several hours in the witness box, Ribera repeatedly refused to answer questions about mobile phone evidence linking him to the fatal shooting despite being ordered to do so by the trial judge.He told the jury he was friends with Declan Morrissey, 33, and knew his friend's brother Christopher Morrissey, 32, who were convicted today along with him of murder and attempted murder. The brothers also had previous convictions and had served time in jail. Christopher Morrissey's three counts of robbery in Gateshead in the late 1990s included a raid in which he stood on a counter and pointed a sawn-off shotgun at a postmaster.Ribera's co-defendants were captured on CCTV visiting his flat 72 hours before the murder, but he claimed he had simply been lending them some money to "sort out" his mother's garden.During the 10-week trial, jurors were shown CCTV footage of the moment Hodson-Walker, 29, was shot dead as he used a cricket bat to fight off the raiders. A gunman is seen cocking a handgun before shooting him.Judith Hodson-Walker, 57, told the trial she had tried to fend off the gang with a curtain pole. "I ran to Craig in the corner and I could see Ken on the floor, he couldn't move. He said: 'He's gone,' and I said: 'He can't be gone, he's my son.'"I picked him up towards me and saw all this blood was all over the floor and underneath him. I tried to blow into his mouth but each time I blew into his mouth it was just gurgling. It was horrendous."In a statement read to the court, Ken Hodson-Walker, 57, said he saw two men come into the store, one with a sledgehammer. "I think I was focused on the gun and I was thinking if I take my eyes off this, even for a minute, then I'm gone," he said.The footage, according to the prosecution, showed the gunman being "almost ushered" towards the subpostmaster by another member of the gang. "The gunman might not have gone to shoot Ken Hodson-Walker, but for the fact that he was almost dragged and instructed to," said Timothy Raggatt, prosecuting. "That's teamwork and that is a classic illustration you may think, of a joint enterprise as well."A fourth defendant, Adrian Snape, who was cleared of murder and attempted murder, had previously admitted driving a stolen VW Golf allegedly used in the raid and he also admitted attempted robbery. His three co-defendants denied attempted robbery but were convicted. The jury was told that the car had been stolen by the Morrissey brothers 10 days earlier outside a house in Knowle, Solihull.The trial heard how Declan Morrissey's unusually small size-five feet left prints at the scene of the shooting and in the car and house where the vehicle was stolen.Craig Hodson-Walker's fiancee, Lisa Bundy, 26, and his mother read victim impact statements to the judge, in which they both said they no longer live, but merely "exist".Bundy said she and Hodson-Walker had been eagerly planning their forthcoming wedding and were looking to move in together. She described the moment in which she was told of his death as an "emotional bombshell".She said: "It was as if my whole world had collapsed and strangely enough, in hindsight, it has. It is funny how you go through life, sad things happen, and you get upset, but it is not until something as tragic as this happens that you finally realise what really being upset is."Every day I feel lonely, I have now lost the one person I felt closest to and the one person I need to hold my hand and tell me everything would be OK. It has left a huge gaping hole in my life."It was the second time Hodson-Walker and his father had tried to fend off people attempting to rob their store. In 2004 they tackled two raiders armed with crowbars who had been trying to steal cigarettes.