More than 80 motorists have been sentenced over a “cash for crash” con in which a garage faked accidents in its yards so that bogus insurance and compensation claims totalling around £750,000 could be made.The final five people to be dealt with over the scam, which centred on a garage near Blackwood, in the south Wales valleys, were sent to prison or given suspended sentences on Friday.In all, 81 people aged 23 to 73 have been given custodial sentences, making the scheme one of the most extensive insurance frauds in British legal history. Police first began investigating St David’s garage, also known as Easifix, in Pengam, Blackwood, in 2011 over a series of car and motorcycle thefts. As part of the inquiry they found CCTV footage showing a Land Rover being deliberately smashed into a forklift truck.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest CCTV footage from the Easifix garage in Pengam.Gwent police launched Operation Dino and officers were surprised at how many people in and around Blackwood and further afield had taken part in the fraud. In October 2013 Cwmbran magistrates court closed to all business apart from processing the 80-plus people accused of involvement in the scheme as they made their first appearances. Since then they have been brought in groups before the crown court to be dealt with. The garage was run by members of the Yandell family. Byron Yandell, 32, his father Peter Yandell, 53 and wife Rachel Yandell, 31, were among those who have been jailed.On Friday a final five were sentenced at Newport crown court by the judge Daniel Williams, who described their actions as “excruciatingly dishonest”. Bethan Palmer, 26, of Newport, Stephen Pegram, 49, of Blackwood, Nicola Cook, 41, of Hengoed, Nicola Rees, 48, of Bargoed, and Stephen Brooks, of Cardiff, were all convicted in connection with the scam. Cook and Pegram were given prison terms of 12 months and six months respectively, while their three co-defendants were handed suspended sentences.Cook, whose part in the fraud was said to be worth £38,000, said she was too ill to go to jail and claimed prison would have a devastating impact on her family. But the judge said: “You were motivated by greed – to you it was easy money.”DCI Richard Williams, of Gwent police, said he was pleased with the strong message the court had sent out. He said: “Hopefully from this day onwards this type of crime will be more difficult to commit. This investigation was very complex due to the number of defendants involved. It was a difficult process.”A total of 57 vehicles were involved in the fraud. Williams said: “It not only cost the insurance industry hundreds of thousands but also has probably had a knock-on effect to motorists in pushing up their premiums too. These latest sentences send out a strong message and should act as a deterrent to others.”Catrin Evans, head of the Crown Prosecution Service Wales complex casework unit, said: “This ‘cash-for-crash’ operation was a highly organised, calculated and extensive conspiracy to defraud. It involved defendants participating in the arrangement of fake road traffic accidents and insurance fraud. “The vast majority of cars supposedly involved in these fake accidents were recovered to a single garage that was at the centre of the criminal operation. A number of members of the Yandell family, who owned the garage, are now serving substantial custodial sentences for the significant parts they played at the head of this organised crime group.”