Can it be true? Were detectives, who had firm evidence of child sex abuse against the late Liberal MP Cyril Smith and others in high office, threatened with the Official Secrets Act if they did not drop the case? Was a scandal quietly covered up with the connivance of the police, the intelligence services and senior politicians?The allegation, made anonymously to BBC’s Newsnight by a police whistleblower, is the latest piece to be added to the grim jigsaw puzzle of sexual abuse that is finally emerging.Smith was supposedly arrested at an underage sex party during the investigation in the early 1980s but released within hours of being taken to a police station. The detectives were then apparently ordered to hand over all their incriminating notebooks and video footage and warned to keep their mouths shut or face prosecution.PM urged to protect whistleblowers over Westminster paedophile ring claims The allegation that there was a circle of privileged men – politicians and police officers among them – who were able to abuse young men and boys with impunity have been circulating for a number of years. Why has it taken so long for them to be addressed, as now finally seems to be happening?Let’s go back to 1964 and the front page of the Sunday Mirror. “Peer and A Gangster: Yard Inquiry” was the headline of a story about “public men at seaside parties”. Although the story mentioned no names, it was common knowledge that the “prominent peer” was the Conservative politician, Lord Boothby, and the “leading thug in the London underworld” was Ronnie Kray.“The private weekend activities of the peer and a number of prominent public men during visits to Brighton”, which were supposedly then under investigation by Scotland Yard, was a reference to rent-boy parties organised by Kray for Boothby and others. In that more deferential era, Boothby bluffed his way out of it, furiously denied the allegations, and successfully sued the Sunday Mirror for £40,000. No other newspaper dared touch the story and the police dropped their investigation. The illegal network remained untouched.This deference continued well into the 1970s and beyond, along with a culture of cover-up and complicity. As Michael Bloch’s recently published biography of the late Liberal leader, Jeremy Thorpe, reveals, politicians at the time believed that they were untouchable, however risky their activities. The Labour politician, Tom Driberg, himself a reckless soul, was even advising Thorpe to be a touch more discreet after hearing gossip about him from rent boys that both men used. The IPCC is investigating 14 referrals of alleged corruption in the Met relating to offences from the 1970s to the 2000s It was in this period that the late Sir Robert Mark was brought in as commissioner of the Metropolitan police with a brief to clear up corruption among detectives at Scotland Yard and, as he put it, to “make virtue fashionable”. He felt, he said later, “like the representative of a leper colony attending the annual garden party of a colonial governor”. Mark achieved much, and by the time he left as commissioner in 1977, corruption had ceased to be routine but pockets certainly still existed, as they always will within any organisation that has the power to ruin or protect. Add to that pressure from politicians and intelligence agents and it is not so hard to see how a cover-up could take place.But why has it taken so long to emerge? As Roy Ramm, the former Met police commander of specialist operations has pointed out, the threat of prosecution under the Official Secrets Act would have made the officers concerned fear for their careers. Also at the time, the libel laws were even more oppressive than they are today and the press, with the exceptions of Rochdale Alternative Press and Private Eye, tiptoed round the allegations.Would we hear quite so much about it now were Smith still alive? Dead men don’t sue.Now the Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating 14 separate referrals of alleged corruption in the Met relating to child sex offences from the 1970s to the 2000s. Offers of immunity need to be made to any police officers still with information so that, finally, the jigsaw puzzle can be completed in all its dark and depressing detail.