The death of Damilola Taylor prompted the police, Southwark council and the other agencies in the deprived south London area of Peckham to take a long, hard look at themselves. They were shocked by what they found.For a start, the youth crime figures were startling. From November 2000 when Damilola died to the following November, 4,228 offences were reported in the borough of Southwark - which includes Peckham - when both victim and perpetrator were under 18. Children as young as eight were bullying or carrying out street robberies.Little had been done to try to find out what young, disaffected youths wanted or needed. Facilities for young people in the area were inadequate. Gang culture was poorly understood. The way problem youngsters were dealt with was unsatisfactory. The various agencies - police, social services, education - were simply not pulling together. Eighteen months on, much work has been done and more is in the pipeline. The police have undertaken a great deal of research, not least into the histories of the 14 youths originally arrested in connection with Damilola's death. It was noted how young people progressed from bullying to more serious offending, often after themselves being victims. They have tried to break this cycle through initiatives such as introducing "school beat officers" to whom youngsters can take their troubles and the "Karrot" scheme in which "good citizenship" is rewarded with fun trips. Southwark's youth offending team has a "gangs project" whose workers get young people to question their allegiance to gangs. Moves are afoot to give young people more to do. Play areas have been improved, more youth clubs opened. Young people are encouraged to get involved in local youth magazines and guides. Perhaps most importantly, a risk management panel has been formed. Agencies who look after young people meet monthly, share information about difficult youngsters and try to work out how to deal with them. Such an exchange never used to happen. Almost certainly the four who were accused of murdering Damilola would have been discussed, had the panel then existed. The council also claims that it is improving education provision for disruptive youngsters. A new primary pupil referral unit which takes in excluded students opened in January. An education support centre, which takes in young offenders among others, has seen its attendance level rise from 50% to 78% within two terms. Meanwhile, the redevelopment of the area continues. The block where Damilola died will be demolished as part of a £280m regeneration scheme which began in 1995. The estate, with its grim walkways and dingy stairwells, is being replaced by modern houses and flats. Nevertheless many Peckham residents do not believe much has changed. Residents claim gangs continue to hang around, dealing in drugs. There are still stabbings and mobile phone thefts. The statistics bear this out. Street crime increased in 2001 compared with the previous year. Uanu Seshmi, who runs the From Boyhood to Manhood project, taking in children excluded or on the verge of being excluded from school, said: "You still have the same things going on, the stabbings, the stealing mobile phones." Ian Bosonnet, Damilola's class teacher at Oliver Goldsmith primary school, has dismissed the response from politicians to the 10-year-old's death as "derisory" and claimed little has changed since the tragedy. There is also cynicism about the regeneration. Not all who have moved to new homes like them. Those who for the moment continue to live in flats while the estates are dismantled feel trapped and more at risk than they were before. Mike Rahman, who runs Southwark Black Minority Ethnic Tenants and Residents Association, said: "Tenants have not, by and large, benefited. Remember, Damilola was stabbed on a regeneration site."