One of the most serious rightwing terror campaigns to strike Britain began, in a way, by chance.Pavlo Lapshyn came to the UK on 24 April. Five days later the 25-year-old Ukrainian student, described by friends as shy and polite, armed himself with a knife and wandered the streets of the Small Heath area of Birmingham, which has a significant and visible Muslim population.Just after 10pm, Lapshyn came across Mohammed Saleem, 82, a grandfather walking the few hundred yards from a mosque to his home with the aid of a stick. Lapshyn approached Saleem from behind and stabbed him three times in the back.Images taken from CCTV in the aftermath of the attack showed a white male wearing a cap running away. Such was the esteem Saleem was held in, such was the effect on the community, that his funeral was attended by 5,000 people.The family felt police were slow to realise the murder was racially motivated, a motive the police now accept. Shortly after Saleem's death, one of his daughters, Shazia Khan, said the attack was "a premeditated, brutal attack, pre-planned, intended to kill".Lapshyn was a doctoral student at the National Metallurgical Academy of Ukraine and came to Britain after winning a competition that gave him the chance to visit Coventry University and get work experience at a company called Delcam. He stayed in a flat on an industrial estate by its offices in Small Heath.After the murder Lapshyn bought materials from shops, the internet and market stalls to make bombs.They were hydrogen peroxide based devices, and Lapshyn used his engineering skills and bomb-making websites to construct them.Ukrainian academic Anton Shekhovtsov, who studies the country's far-right, says that in late May Lapshyn added extremist material to his social media page hosted on a Russian-language site.On 21 May Lapshyn added material about Timothy McVeigh, the Oklahoma bomber who was motivated by extreme rightwing propaganda.British police and Shekhovtsov say that until the murder of Saleem they can find no link between Lapshyn and extremist groups or material.On Friday 21 June, Lapshyn's first device exploded outside a mosque in Walsall. It would be a day before it was reported, with the nature of the debris leading the incident to be classed as terrorist.The device was packed in a children's lunchbox with a picture of a shark on it. Lapshyn travelled with the bomb on a bus from his flat. Having left the device set on a timer made from a mobile phone, he took the bus back to Birmingham, buying a bottle of wine on his way home.Lapshyn planned his attacks for Friday lunchtimes, the main time that Muslims attend places of worship, and the equivalent of the Sunday morning service in the Christian faith. He told police after his arrest that his next bomb, left outside a Wolverhampton mosque, was placed because police had arrested the wrong man in connection with the Walsall attack.Police failed to recognise that a bomb had caused debris on a traffic island near the Wolverhampton mosque until Lapshyn's arrest. Officers were called to the scene after it had detonated on Friday 28 June, but they were not specialists and did not realise the significance of the type of debris.Detective Chief Inspector Shaun Edwards, the lead detective for Operation Clockface – the hunt for Lapshyn, said: "He was intending to stir racial hatred."We can find no pre-planning before he came to the UK. He was very well educated. He had a really dangerous mindset of hatred for non-white people."The final bomb attack on 12 July represented a serious escalation. The bombs had been getting increasingly powerful.Lapshyn attacked a mosque in Tipton with a device that would have murdered and maimed worshippers had he got his timings right.He had studied the mosque's website and timed his device to explode at 1pm during Friday prayers, which usually attracted the biggest crowd of the week.The device was packed with 600g of 25-millimetre nails, spraying the deadly contents across a 70-metre radius with such force that nails were left embedded in tree trunks. But main prayers were delayed one hour to 2pm that day, meaning the area was empty when the bomb exploded.Since the first bomb attack police had been hunting for the culprit with assistance from MI5.Police appeals for information met with a blank because Lapshyn was so new to the country – no one knew him, and he was not on any police or intelligence service database.They seized and examined thousands of hours of CCTV and were able to pick out a suspect, going to and from the sites of the attacks.After the Tipton bombing the investigation gained new urgency as Lapshyn had increased the capability of his devices to kill.Four days after the attack, police issued an appeal with clear images of Lapshyn. Assistant Chief Constable Marcus Beale, head of the West Midlands counter-terrorism unit, said every bit of experience led them to expect a flood of information from the public.But ,as the phones failed to ring, police began to despair. They had placed extra officers to deal with the expected deluge of information in response to such specific details about a murder and terrorist suspect. But there was nothing.Beale remembers it as one of the lowest points of the hunt for Lapshyn. "I believed we had a serial bomber, I had a picture, we were in the middle of Ramadan, and Friday prayers were the next day."Also entering the mix was a planned English Defence League protest that Saturday in Birmingham city centre.Beale said top government officials, including the home secretary, were in contact with senior officers as concern reached the highest levels of Whitehall.As Friday drew nearer, anxieties rose. Beale said Lapshyn's attacks were sure to continue until he was caught, adding it was the toughest week in the history of West Midlands police.Police were in contact with every mosque in the region offering security advice. Then on Thursday 18 July, a breakthrough. Local beat officers studied CCTV of the suspect taken from an Asda in Small Heath. They looked at his shopping, which included a pineapple, and decided this was someone going to work in the area.The officers decided to scour local businesses armed with pictures of the suspect, as the clock ticked on towards Friday.At Delcam employees recognised the man in the pictures as their work experience student.On arrest Lapshyn quickly confessed not only to the bombings but also to Saleem's murder. His motivation was avowedly racist and those who interviewed him said he was "calm, calculating and committed".Beale said: "He had a view that carrying out a campaign of terror was more effective than one event."After the arrest police set out to hunt down any accomplices and anyone who may have directed him to carry out the attacks. But their inquiries point to him acting alone and radicalising himself in extremist rightwing ideology.Shekhovtsov said Lapshyn was by all accounts a "shy, polite, normal guy" with no links to extremist groups in Ukraine, a view confirmed by West Midlands police.Lapshyn was part of Ukraine's Russian linguistic minority. Shekhovtsov says extremist material started to appear on Lapshyn's social media pages after he murdered Saleem. The extremist groups he cites are Russian in origin: "Before Birmingham, there is no evidence of rightwing material on his website."Just before Lapshyn was due to travel to the UK his mother was left seriously injured after a car accident. Police can find nothing in the details of the case – the others involved were white – to offer any insight into why he became so hellbent on murder once he arrived in Britain.