They disagree about whether it was the Normans in 1066 or the Magna Carta in 1215, but one thing on which lawyers, judges and historians agree is that the jury trial is an ancient and preciously guarded feature of the English criminal justice system.Which is not to say it has been perfect. For many years the right to be judged by one's peers meant the right to be judged by property-owning men. The opening up of eligibility now means that all socio-economic groups can enjoy taking part in what is often a frustratingly slow, delay-ridden and frequently flawed process, more than capable of producing perverse results.But efficiency is not really the point. As well as the perception of fairness when defendants are tried by their peers, trial by jury sends a powerful symbol of public participation in the criminal justice system. History is replete with acknowledgment of this symbolism – one of the first measures of the French revolution of 1789 was to remove the power of judgment from the judiciary and place it in the hands of citizens. Both Russia and Spain reintroduced jury trial after the collapse of their totalitarian regimes. There is little point dwelling on the historic value of jury trials, however – parliament passed the legislation that did away with them in some cases in 2003. So when the court of appeal yesterday ordered the jury-less retrial of four men accused of conspiring to commit a robbery, the decision should not have come as a great surprise.The Criminal Justice Act 2003 introduced powers to hold trials in the absence of a jury where there is a real and present danger of jury tampering taking place, and where available alternatives to a jury-less trial fail to effectively remove this risk.In the robbery trial, the court said, the conditions were met. No one disputed that there was a significant issue of jury tampering; three trials have already failed as a result, each lasting six months and costing, no doubt, millions. Jurors pulled out citing stress, sickness and intimidation. The arrangements needed for a further jury trial to take place – estimated at up to 60 police officers and a cost of between £1.5m and £6m – might still not guarantee the protection of jurors, the court said.Underlying this apparently straightforward judgment there are some more complex and apparently unanswered questions. Everyone, Lord Judge included, seems to agree that the principle of trial by jury is "a hallowed principle" – but is it a right? If so, do the resources required to protect the constitutional responsibilities of the jury from intimidation matter? There is no suggestion that it would be impossible to protect the jury – the issue is more whether the taxpayer, and the jurors who would undoubtedly face substantial restrictions while a trial was ongoing, are willing to pay the price.And second, is the presence of a jury relevant to establishing a "fair trial"? The court of appeal said no, distinguishing clearly between the two (a fair trial being non-negotiable under the UK's commitments to the European Convention on Human Rights – not to mention the prevailing standards of all democracies). No one is suggesting that a single judge sitting without a jury is incapable of delivering a fair verdict, but if a jury is so irrelevant to the fairness of a trial, then why do we spend so much time and money on them in the first place?Human rights lawyers working in countries undergoing democratic transitions say they aspire to the England and Wales model of jury trial, echoing the now notorious sentiments of former master of the rolls Lord Devlin, who described it as "the lamp that shows freedom lives."Somebody had better tell them that in England it just got a little darker.