David Cameron has visited Manchester to pay his respects to the two police officers shot dead this week.During a visit to Greater Manchester police headquarters the prime minister said: "I think the whole country is profoundly shocked by what has happened and it is right we praise the work that they did and remember all they have done."I think it is also important that the government makes sure that it is doing everything it can to help the Greater Manchester police force tackle organised crime and gang-related violence, and I think that is an important conversation and important work to be done too."On Friday morning the man accused of murdering the officers as well as a father and son made a two-minute court appearance in Manchester amid tight security., Police said a 15-year-old boy had been arrested at a school over the murders of the two policewomen. The teenager was held on suspicion of assisting an offender and questioned by police investigating the deaths of Pc Nicola Hughes, 23, and Pc Fiona Bone, 32, and father and son David and Mark Short. He was later released on bail until 27 September pending further inquiries.Earlier, armed officers were in the city's magistrates court as Dale Cregan, 29, of no fixed address, appeared in the dock in a dark blue sweatshirt and tracksuit bottoms, with a full beard and wearing a black onyx false eye to replace his missing left eye. He was led into the dock of the packed courtroom flanked by four police officers, while two more officers dressed in military-style fatigues and armed with machine guns stood outside the dock and two armed officers sat in the public gallery. Armed officers could be seen in offices overlooking the court building.Cregan appeared before district judge Jonathan Taaffe charged with the murder of constables Bone and Hughes on Tuesday at the Hattersley estate in Mottram, Tameside.The officers were killed in a shooting and grenade attack as they responded to a routine burglary report. Cregan is also charged with the murders of David and Mark Short, and attempted murder of four other people either injured or present during the separate attacks on the father and son.Cregan sat down briefly after he was led into the dock but stood up when asked to do so by Taaffe. The defendant spoke only to confirm his name and date of birth to the packed courtroom.Mark Short, 23, died from a gunshot wound to his neck after a gunman entered a pub and opened fire at around 11.50pm at the Cotton Tree Inn in Droylsden, Tameside, on 25 May. Cregan is also accused of the attempted murders of Michael Belcher, Ryan Pridding and John Short, who were in the pub at the time.On 10 August the victim's father, David, 46, died in a grenade and gun attack on his home in Clayton, Manchester. Less than 10 minutes later there was another grenade explosion less than half a mile away in Droylsden. Cregan faces a further charge of attempted murder of Sharon Hark arising from the incidents on that day.