Rape victims who know their assailant will be given fresh encouragement to report the attack in a drive to boost sex crime convictions.Fear of not being believed by police or of a humiliating ordeal in the witness box is still thought to deter many women from coming forward, particularly if the attacker is an ex-partner or acquaintance. Barely one reported rape in 13 now ends in a conviction. This week the Government will launch new training programmes for police officers in sensitive handling of cases, backed up by new standards for collecting forensic evidence in the vital first hours after an allegation. A national review of the way rape victims are treated in police stations will also be launched, in hopes of extending the use of special facilities such as 'rape suites', where women can be interviewed and examined privately in homely surroundings. Home Office Minister John Denham and Solicitor General Harriet Harman will also outline plans to boost domestic violence prosecutions - including new powers for judges to issue restraining orders preventing convicted men from approaching their wives when released from prison, and a consultation on whether domestic violence victims should be given the right to anonymity in court. This would effectively mean men accused of domestic violence would also have their names withheld for fear of identifying the wife. 'A lot of rape cases occur within the home or by people you know, and we can't really separate domestic violence on the one side and rape on the other,' said one Home Office source. Under plans unveiled last week in the Criminal Justice White Paper, courts will for the first time be allowed to study evidence in serious crimes not only of previous convictions but behaviour patterns shown up by acquittals. For example, a man who has been repeatedly accused and acquitted of date rape may see former witnesses recalled in a later case. The action plan for rape victims follows a highly criticial report by Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Constabulary (HMIC) and HM Crown Prosecution Inspectorate earlier this year, which called for specialist rape prosecutors to be consulted before any case is dropped. It also found a quarter of police crime reports failed to contain basic information such as whether the victim knew the attacker. The Home Office has been promised a Criminal Justice and Sentencing Bill in this autumn's Queen's Speech, expected to contain many of the measures. Harman is also pushing for a separate domestic violence Bill, which would include compulsory 'murder reviews' to be conducted whenever a woman is killed by a partner.