How many women are in prison? There are 4,300 women in prison in England and Wales spread across 17 women's jails. The women's prison population has increased rapidly in the last decade, from 2,600 when Labour came to power in 1997.Why the big rise? It's not because women are becoming more aggressive - the majority of sentenced female prisoners are held for non-violent offences, most commonly shoplifting. Most of the rise in the female prison population can be explained by a significant increase in the severity of sentences. Fifteen years ago only 8% of women convicted of motoring offences went to prison. By 2001, that had risen to 42%. Over a third of all adult women in prison had no previous convictions - more than double the figure for men. The number of women in prison has increased far more rapidly than the number of men: over the past decade there has been a 126% increase in the number of women in prison , compared with a 46% rise in men in jail.How do women fare in prison? Not well at all. Labour peer Baroness Corston's review of the way women offenders are handled by the criminal justice system, published today, was triggered by the deaths of six women at Styal prison, Cheshire, between August 2002 and 2003. Last year, three women took their own lives in prisons, following four in 2005 and 13 in 2004. To date in 2007 there have been two apparent self-inflicted deaths of women prisoners. In addition, the Prison Reform Trust said 40% of women prisoners have attempted suicide at some time. Campaigners say many would be better off receiving treatment and support to stop them reoffending.Why so many problems? Katherine Rake, director of the Fawcett Society, said many women in prison are highly vulnerable and prison does them little good. The Prison Service says most have experienced domestic violence or have been victims of childhood abuse, 80% have diagnosable mental health problems. Drugs are also a big problem: Mandy Ogunmokun, a drugs worker at HMP Holloway in London, said about 70% of the women who come there are drug addicts. In 2004, 36% of sentenced women had committed drugs offences.In addition, the majority of women who are jailed are mothers and a third have a child under five. Separation from family and isolation can be stressful and make a long sentence feel even longer. To make matters worse, the small number of women's prisons means they are far more likely to be held a long way from their families.So what can be done? Fawcett's commission on women and the criminal justice system called for offenders with caring responsibilities to be imprisoned only after the effect on their dependents has been considered. Now Baroness Corston's review has recommended shutting existing women's prisons and replacing them with small units in a radical 10-year reform programme. She said: "If a lot of women in prison are mentally ill, it begs the question should they be in prison."Would change bring other benefits? Potentially, yes. Certainly campaign group Women in Prison says the most potent evidence for reform is that locking so many women up does not work - 65% go on to reoffend on release.