Jack Straw's statement"On behalf of the government, I express my deepest sympathies to the families of Mr Bonomo and Mr Ferez and I am ensuring they receive every possible support."These were the most appalling, sadistic, and gratuitous murders. The direct responsibility for these killings must lie – as the jury found – with the criminals Sonnex and Farmer. But it is also the case that Sonnex could and should have been in custody at the time he committed these murders. It was the consequence of very serious failures across the criminal justice system that he had not been arrested and incarcerated some weeks before."It is because of these failings that I have met the families of the two victims on two occasions and apologised to them for the failings which led to Dano Sonnex being free at the time of the murders. In relation to the failings of the probation service, I take full responsibility as secretary of state. They were unacceptable and had tragic consequences."While risk can never be eliminated entirely and the management of chaotic offenders is inherently very difficult, there is clear evidence of poor judgment and failures to act promptly by the agencies responsible for managing Dano Sonnex."I will personally monitor progress closely until I am satisfied that high standards are being achieved. I will also be making a statement in parliament about this as soon as possible. All of the reports within my ambit will be presented to parliament and made public."There may be those who assert that insufficient probation service resources was a factor in these failings. This is emphatically not the case. Probation spending has increased 70% in real terms in the last 12 years. Last year London Probation underspent by £3.5m on a budget of £154m, and the service as a whole underspent by £17m."The fundamental problems – as the independent reports emphasise – were managerial. It was a failure to allocate London Probation resources sensibly between the different areas, to supervise workloads, and to heed obvious warning signs – like sickness rates in Lewisham and Greenwich probation area being an average of 27 days per year, more than twice the London Probation average."Probation officers do an extremely tough job supervising difficult and dangerous people. The number of serious further offence convictions against all offenders supervised by the Probation Service is actually around 0.35% and in London it is approximately 0.2% of London's total caseload. I do not want this to be a reflection on the valuable work they do every day to protect the public, reduce re-offending and support victims."Action taken• Thorough reviews were carried out, including a serious further offence review, an independent review by the National Offender Management Service, and inquiries by the Independent Police Complaints Commission and the London Criminal Justice Board.• Following an investigation into his role, the chief officer of London Probation resigned his position.• An interim chief officer, Paul Wilson, was appointed.• London Probation is implementing new training, recruitment and IT procedures and introducing monthly targets.• A hundred new probation officers are to be recruited in London over the next two years.• Staff involved in the Sonnex case have been investigated and action taken.• The IPCC investigated police officers responsible for recalling Sonnex to custody. One officer received a disciplinary warning.• The chief inspector of probation is carrying out a case review of London Probation which will report back in September. He will repeat the exercise next year to assess whether sufficient changes have been made.• The Metropolitan police now has a unit in each London borough dedicated to arresting wanted offenders. It is also working with other agencies to improve information-sharing and ensure the clear identification and arrest of offenders.