The Russian foreign intelligence agency today denied any involvement in the apparent poisoning of the former KGB agent Alexander Litvinenko.The SVR said it would not have been in Russia's interests to poison Mr Litvinenko, who remains seriously ill in University College Hospital in London.A spokesman, Sergei Ivanov, told the Interfax news agency: "Litvinenko is not the kind of person for whose sake we would spoil bilateral relations. It is absolutely not in our interests to be engaged in such activity."Mr Litvinenko, who defected six years ago and is now a British citizen, worked for the KGB and another of its successor intelligence agencies, the Federal Security Service. The Kremlin has already denied any involvement in the alleged poisoning.Doctors said yesterday that his illness was unlikely to have been caused by thallium poisoning, but they did not rule out radioactive material - including radioactive thallium - being to blame.Friends of Mr Litvinenko claimed he had been poisoned in London earlier this month because of his fierce criticism of Vladimir Putin's government.After visiting Mr Litvinenko in hospital today, one of his closest friends, Alex Goldfarb, emerged to say that he looked worse.He said: "I did not speak to the doctors, but today he looked worse than yesterday. He is very tired; he is not really communicating. He is aware and alert, but the light is irritating him and he is much thinner, and I would say yellow. So I would say that he is deteriorating."Andrei Nekrasov, who made a film based on Mr Litvinenko's book, The FSB Blows Up Russia, was with Mr Goldfarb.Mr Nekrasov said he had been "absolutely shocked" to see his friend screaming in pain. He said: "I saw him just a month ago when he was a healthy, cheerful man full of energy and a thirst for life, and [now] he looks like a ghost. It is very, very upsetting. I was close to tears."Mr Litvinenko had been investigating the murder of the dissident Russian journalist Anna Politkovskaya when he fell illDr Amit Nathwani, the consultant caring for Mr Litvinenko, said hospital staff were carrying out a series of tests and investigating "numerous" other potential causes of his combination of symptoms. He added that he did not want to put a figure on Mr Litvinenko's survival chances.The Italian espionage expert Mario Scaramella, who met Mr Litvinenko in a sushi bar on the day he was allegedly poisoned, yesterday revealed the pair had discussed documents he had received which included "alarming" facts that left both men fearing for their lives.Dr Scaramella, a former consultant on the Italian government's Mitrokhin commission, which investigated the KGB's activities in Italy, suggested Mr Litvinenko could have been targeted for his own work for the commission.Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism unit, which is heading the police investigation into the alleged poisoning, said its inquiries were continuing.