The verdict of a jury last Friday that found Ched Evans not guilty of rape appears to be a devastating setback for justice for rape victims. The footballer admits that he had sex with a woman he barely knew, who was drunk, and to whom he addressed not a word. He was convicted by the first jury to try him in 2011. But at his retrial, the jury decided they could not be certain that the woman had not consented, a verdict they reached after they had heard evidence that she had behaved in a similar manner with two other men at around the same time. Everything about this case stinks. A rich young man who on his own admission behaved in a way that most people would find unacceptable is found not guilty, while his victim, a young woman who was only 19 at the time, has had to move house five times, change her identity twice after Twitter trolls outed her on social media, and now has her alleged sexual history spread over the tabloids.It is true that not all the evidence that Mr Evans’ legal team finally won on was available at the first trial. A subsequent appeal against conviction was dismissed. Only after a new legal team was employed was the original evidence reconsidered and the witnesses re-interviewed. A new defence was presented to the Criminal Cases Review Commission. The court of appeal considered the new evidence and decided that it met the condition of “similar fact”: that meant there could be a retrial, and the new evidence of sexual behaviour could be introduced. Explaining her reasons, Lady Justice Hallett admitted she did so with “a considerable degree of hesitation”.The judge was unquestionably fulfilling the requirements of the law as she understood it. But sometimes the law is wrong.There is real concern that this sequence of events will make the prosecution of rape cases harder and reporting rarer. The verdict breathes fresh life into the old prejudice that how a woman has behaved in the past can be taken as evidence of the way she behaved at the time of the alleged rape, that – in the ancient formulation – “unchaste women are more likely to consent and less worthy of belief”. It will deter victims from going to the police for fear of having their private lives raked over; it could make convictions, already hard to achieve, even harder; and it will further embolden defence lawyers in rape trials who know how effective it is to apply for sexual history to be admissible, a tactic that even when it is disallowed has been shown to influence jurors’ opinion of the victim and lead to more acquittals – just when the leap of 123% in reported rape over the past five years already suggests England and Wales are facing an epidemic that neither police nor courts can keep up with.Until the Youth Justice and Criminal Evidence Act in 1999 outlawed the introduction of sexual history in most cases, it was a commonplace defence strategy. It took years of campaigning, and the election of a Labour government, before parliament finally accepted that the only relevant factor is consent, or a reasonable belief in consent. But late in the day, an exemption was introduced in the interests, the then home secretary Jack Straw argued, of justice for defendants. When the law lords considered the matter soon after, they decided that to protect the right to a fair trial, there were “rare” occasions when sexual history could be taken into account.Last year almost 24,000 cases of rape were reported to police, twice as many as just four years ago. The great majority were women raped by men. When the statistics came out last week, organisations like Rape Crisis England welcomed the greater readiness of victims to go to the police. But, like the oracle of Delphi, they also warned of the continuing damage done by victim-blaming attitudes that deter women from coming forward. The trauma of rape, and the persistent claim that consent can be deduced rather than clearly established, all indicate that the use of sexual history needs to be looked at again.