The A&E workerRachel Wallis, an associate specialist in emergency medicine at Warrington hospital, said: "I do not think the number of incidents has decreased since 24-hour licensing. I have been here for 12 years and year on year I have seen an increase in the number of alcohol-related attendances at A&E. It is certainly less predictable than it was prior to 24-hour licensing. They might be physically and verbally abusive to staff. We have them urinating and vomiting. It is not nice for other patients and we often have to concentrate on the difficult behaviour and they take priority from other patients. I think unfortunately drunkenness is an accepted part of working in A&E." The police officerGarry Shewan, an assistant chief constable of Cheshire police, said extended opening hours drags community officers away from local beats into the town centre. "We have got 40-plus premises in a half-mile radius who are all competing in a market where they are all trying to out-do each other. Whether they like it or not, bars have to take collective responsibility for promoting alcohol. The concept of 24-hour drinking was reasonable to ensure there were not peak times but in reality it has extended drinking hours which has impacted on town centres. They are now almost ghettos of drunkenness. "We have an environment where the pubs are shoddy and there has been very little investment. They are not comfortable places, they are simply a shell to facilitate the sale of alcohol. There are no soft furnishings or places where people can sit down and have a drink and a chat and it is all upright drinking. The difference between towns like Warrington and places like Manchester is there is no other entertainment. There is only one reason to come here and that is to get drunk."He said licensees who sell alcohol from 50p to £1.50 for a pint are "making a fast buck out of misery". Cheshire police has an initiative called Archangel, which is aiming to tackle binge drinking and to make the town centre a more pleasant place in the evening.The street sweeperPat Mannion has been a street sweeper for 21 years."There are still people hanging round in the morning when we start work as one of the clubs doesn't close till 6am, which is when we start working. Most of the weekends, there are bottles and glass everywhere. It's horrendous. We get people swearing at us and taking the mickey out of us. They try and steal the sweeper trucks or try and jump on them. There is litter everywhere, chip papers, pizza boxes, broken glass, blood, clothing. When the nights start getting lighter it is much worse. It can be a bit intimidating - we see fights at taxi ranks as people are queueing."The fast food workerAndrew Pemberton is the proprietor of Portos, which serves chicken from 10.30am to 4.30am from a site just off Bridge Street. "It is not the teenagers that cause problems, it is the people in their late 20s and 30s. I think town has gone quieter in the three years since I have been here. Whereas there used to be a lot of people out on a Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday night, now it is really just Saturday night. The 17- to 19-year-olds have been stigmatised, but it is not really them who are causing problems at the weekend. I don't normally get much trouble and I am lucky if there are any incidents once a month. The taxi ranks are policed by marshals and there are police officers on all four corners of Bridge Street."The pub landlordMike Mason runs Panama Jacks, on the corner of Bridge Street. It has a capacity of up to 500 people. "Our opening hours have remained the same. A lot of the bars in the town centre are offering stupid prices with 50p drinks. We get a lot of those drunks trying to get in here but we do not want them in. We sell drinks at a reasonable price - £3.20, not 50p."I think it is causing binge drinking because they are tanking up for £5 on beer and trying to get into other establishments. We are open until 3am on Friday and Saturday and to 2am during the week."We are seeing people coming out later since 24-hour drinking. They used to be out by 8.30pm but now it is not until 10pm and they are staying out later. "Most people I have spoken to in the bars and clubs want it abolished."