Anthony Walker could hardly have been more different from the idle thugs who murdered him.Determined to become a lawyer and then a judge, Mr Walker spent his days working hard to gain the A-levels he needed to get into university.The popular teenager devoted most of his free time to basketball and his Christian faith, although it was always clear which he valued more. He once declined an invitation to trials for the England basketball team because they fell on a Sunday.Mr Walker was also devoted to his close-knit family, particularly his mother Gee, his four sisters and one younger brother. A mature and thoughtful 18-year-old, he was effectively the man about the house - his parents having separated more than a decade ago.But his maturity did not extinguish the exuberance of youth. His family and friends recall an accident-prone young man whose constant basketball dribbling meant that picture frames and fragile ornaments did not last long in the Walker home. Neighbours knew when Mr Walker was coming or going by the sound of the basketball bouncing off the pavement.He also loved to perform, and was the first to take centre stage at church and school events to perform a rap song or dance routine.Paul Taylor and Michael Barton grew up in the same area as Mr Walker - Taylor attended the same junior school - but they had chosen a very different path.The cousins - their mothers are sisters - were members of large, well-known families entrenched on the sprawling council estates of Huyton. Revelling in the nicknames Chomper and Ozzy, their days were spent loitering, smoking cannabis and - to use Barton's words - "going out robbing".Taylor, who was taking cocaine on the night of the murder, was expelled from school and has nine previous convictions dating back to 1999. He was sentenced to four months in a youth offenders institution in January 2001 for battery, and 21 months' detention in October last year for burglary and possession of an offensive weapon. He was released in February, because he had spent seven months on remand. The wiry 20-year-old had a reputation for violence, and was once seen brandishing a hunting knife in the Huyton Park pub, boasting "someone's going to get this tonight". Weeks later, he was thrown out of the same pub for wielding a canister of CS gas.His chosen career was burglary, and he regularly targeted the hotels of north Wales to steal safes and other valuables.He and Barton were planning to go out stealing on the night of Mr Walker's murder, and that lunchtime they had tried to break into a house in nearby Rainhill to steal a quad motorcycle.When they saw a man waiting for a bus nearby, Taylor threatened him, despite the fact that he was wearing a neck brace and was with his two-year-old son.Barton, who left school at 14, wanted to join the army but failed the entrance exam - scoring just 19% when the minimum pass mark was 50%. The burly teenager also tried his hand at roofing and forklift truck driving but failed to hold down a steady job.Instead he chose to follow Taylor's career path and became an accomplice in his burglaries, for which he earned around £100 a time.As Taylor's apprentice, he was learning some tricks of the trade. During the Rainhill burglary on the day of Mr Walker's death, he had changed from his usual Lacoste tracksuit and Reebok trainers into a pair of dark trousers and a white shirt. To a passing police patrol, he explained, this attire would arouse less suspicion.He had no previous convictions, and claimed to be intimidated by Taylor. He played on this in court and tried to pretend the attack on Mr Walker was all Taylor's doing, and that he had simply tagged along.But it was Barton who started the confrontation with Mr Walker and his cousin Marcus Binns by shouting racist abuse. It was Barton who felt slighted when Mr Walker refused to take the bait and walked away.It was Barton who owned the ice axe - he had been seen swinging it into the pub signpost two days earlier. And it was Barton who told Taylor he had "lost face", prompting the pair to go looking for Mr Walker.Taylor may have been the more experienced criminal and the one who swung the axe at Anthony's head, but it was his sidekick who supplied the weapon and started the fight.