Dog bites man has never been a headline, but the fact that three times as many people living in the most deprived areas of England are bitten by dogs as in the least deprived areas is an eye-catching statistic.That fact, from the Health and Social Care Information Centre, is one of the pieces in an increasingly complex, but potentially hugely powerful mosaic of information about our health and wellbeing. Public managers and government bodies, as well as academics, are starting to realise the value of putting together different bits of the jigsaw to achieve more joined-up thinking about public health policies in local areas.One conclusion that is already inescapable is the role of alcohol in endangering public health. While the causes of the big fall in crime in England and Wales, reported last week, are complex, researchers at Cardiff University highlighted the decline in binge drinking and rising alcohol prices as one factor: proba tion services were urged to pay more attention to alcohol misuse to help reduce reoffending. Paul McDowell, chief probation inspector, said progress on cutting down offending had been "let down" by lack of attention to tackling alcohol misuse.People living in poorer neighbourhoods are still substantially more likely to suffer an assault – by dog or human – than those who live in more affluent areas, but Manchester University academic Ian Warren, has found that living in an ethnically diverse area reduces the impact of poverty on levels of violence. This suggests that there is more violence in poor white neighbourhoods.Warren unearthed this finding by pulling together statistics from the North West Ambulance Service and from hospital admissions data in Greater Manchester. His research also reveals that residents in fast-changing neighbourhoods are more likely to be assulted, especially in areas with large numbers of students.Facts like these are gold nuggets of information for councils and public managers trying to support healthier and safer communities. They provide a valuable counterbalance to distrust of some official figures, most notably crime data.Writing for the Whitehall Watch website, Warren says public health data provides a more comprehensive and reliable picture of the impact of violence on local communities than official crime statistics."Those of us who research interpersonal violence have known for many years that police-recorded crime statistics are a poor means to measure the scale of violence," says Warren. Instead, researchers, including the violence and society research group at Cardiff and the trauma and injury intelligence group at John Moores University, in Liverpoool, are using public health data to provide new and reliable information.A violent incident, for instance, may result in one person being charged with a crime and another person going to hospital. There's no way, at the moment, to link those two pieces of data. Warren and other researchers want that to change. By linking public health data with police data, there could be a richer understanding for policy managers about what is really going on – and the complex relationship between crime and health.But whose job is it to delve into and put together these kinds of statistics? A survey by Colin Talbot, professor of government at Manchester University, about how senior civil servants are using academic research highlights the fact that very little is known about just how academics and policymakers interact. Time to put that right.