A woman whose husband faked his death in a canoeing accident told police she was desperate to tell her sons that their father was still alive but that he blackmailed her to stay quiet, a court heard yesterday.Jurors at Teesside crown court heard transcripts of Anne Darwin's police interviews in which she claimed that if she spoke out, her husband would say she was involved in the £250,000 insurance deception from the beginning. She described lying to her sons, Mark and Anthony, as "extremely painful".Yesterday it emerged that on the night she reported John Darwin missing to police in March 2002, she picked him up from the beach where he had "disappeared" and drove him to Durham station.Asked in one interview whether the most difficult deception was pretending to her sons that their father was dead, the 56-year-old said: "That is extremely painful, always has been ... I wanted to tell the boys. I knew they were suffering, but he couldn't do it. John kept saying: 'I will say you are party to it if you tell anyone. We have to clear the debts, then maybe we could move on'." In a police interview, she said her husband thought he would have to be away for only two or three months, then he could return and sort out their finances. She had received phone calls from him asking if he could come home in the weeks after he disappeared. "I still had family staying with me. He was finding it hard. He was getting desperate," she said. But eventually the time was right for him to come back. "He phoned me and gave me directions to where he was ... I didn't want to go and pick him up, but I couldn't leave him. At one point, he was literally crying on the telephone. I couldn't see him hurt." The court heard that John Darwin and his wife swapped loving emails, while their family, friends and the authorities believed he was dead. One message from Anne to her husband, sent as he was flying back to the UK on November 30, said: "Hope you had a good flight and everything okay with the family. Don't leave me. Love you, missing you already XXXXXX." In another email she told her husband she loved him. Darwin's defence is that she was acting under marital coercion. She admitted staging his death was "a ridiculous idea", and she had argued with her husband that they should have declared themselves bankrupt. "But he just wouldn't hear it. He said we had both worked hard all our lives and he didn't want to lose everything he had worked for," she said. "He was not violent, but could be very manipulative. He had a way of making me feel quite small." Darwin told police: "From the day he came home, I tried to persuade him to come clean. He couldn't, he wouldn't and, if I tried, he would say I was in it from the start. I knew it was stupid but ... it was difficult to turn back." Weeks later she picked him up from the Lake District, where he had been living rough. From then on, he lay low in the bedsit next to the family home and assumed a pseudonym and disguise so that the scam would not be rumbled.Anne Darwin, a former doctors' receptionist, denies 15 charges of obtaining money by deception and money laundering. The trial continues.