Within hours of the bloody, ritualistic murder of Heather Barnett detectives began to investigate her neighbour, Italian-born Danilo Restivo.It has taken almost a decade of scientific tests, many weeks of intense surveillance and the discovery of another woman's body 1,000 miles away to finally bring Restivo to justice.The murder on 12 November 2002 of Barnett, a mother of two who worked from her home in Bournemouth, Dorset, as a seamstress, could hardly have been more brutal and disturbing.Barnett, 48, was battered to death around the head with a hammer-like object and dragged into her bathroom. Her throat was cut, she was partially stripped and her breasts were sliced off. The killer left a clump of another woman's hair in Barnett's right hand and some of her own beneath her left.Her children, Terry, then 14, and Caitlin, 11, found their mother's body when they returned from school. Terry told how his sister "went absolutely ballistic" as she opened the bathroom door. When he peered in he was horrified. "I saw her lying on her back with blood. I saw blood absolutely everywhere and I thought 'Oh no.'"The police's first contact with Restivo came just a few minutes later – when officers arrived at the scene he was comforting Terry and both children were taken into Restivo's home while forensic scientists got to work on the murder scene.Detective Superintendent Mark Cooper, the senior investigating officer, said police were instantly suspicious of Restivo. "He was in the inquiry right from the start. From day one he was on our list," said Cooper. "He was one of the first people on the scene and he comforted the children."Four days after the murder police visited Restivo's house as part of their house-to-house inquiries. A detective sergeant asked Restivo what shoes he had been wearing on the day of the killing because police believed the killer's footwear could have been contaminated with blood.Restivo showed the officers a pair of trainers lying in the bathtub. They smelled of bleach and Restivo claimed he had soaked them because they had been dirty. The shoes were taken away for examination.Police began to dig into Restivo's background. He was born in Sicily but moved to Potenza in southern Italy when his father was hired to set up a library there.It was Restivo's link to a 16-year-old girl called Elisa Claps that propelled him from person of interest to prime suspect.As a 21-year-old Restivo fell for Claps but she rejected him. On 12 September 1993 he met her at the church of the Most Holy Trinity in Potenza. And then she vanished.In 1995 he was convicted in Italy of giving false information about an injury to his hand on the day Claps vanished. Police and the Italian media suspected he had killed her but no body was found and there was no proof of Restivo's guilt.In May 2002 Restivo started a new life away from his homeland when he moved to Bournemouth having met a woman on the internet. Six months later Barnett was dead.Cooper said that within a few months – early 2003 – Restivo had become the "sole focus" of the investigation. Police did not have the evidence to charge him and instead began carrying out intense surveillance to try to secure that evidence. They were soon alarmed by his behaviour.In May 2004 police watched Restivo at secluded locations observing or following women. On one occasion he was stopped by officers who found in his bag a large knife and a packet of tissues. In the boot of his car there was a hooded jacket with a balaclava and gloves in the pockets. Two pairs of scissors were in the driver's door pocket."We considered Restivo was a real risk to the public and we did everything necessary to make sure that he was being watched and observed. He was an immediate and real danger to women," said Cooper. Police continued to watch Restivo, sometimes 24 hours a day.In June 2004 Restivo was arrested and questioned about a number of matters, including the trainers, but he insisted he had nothing to do with Barnett's death.Meanwhile police were following up the hair left in Barnett's hand. Detectives discovered that women in Potenza and Bournemouth had complained of having hair snipped as they travelled on buses or, on one occasion, while sitting in the dark of a cinema. There were 15 reports from women in the UK and nine in Italy.At an identity parade in 2004 a young woman called Holly Stroud picked out Restivo as the man who had cut her hair while she travelled to school the year before. Still it was not enough and he was freed.In November 2006 Restivo was rearrested and his home searched. Police found a lock of hair tied with green cotton. Restivo said the hair must have been planted.Scientists continued to re-examine material recovered from the scene of Barnett's murder. Experts had found traces of blood on Restivo's trainers but it had not been possible to extract a DNA sample.In 2008 scientists finally made a link between DNA material found on a green towel recovered from Barnett's flat and Restivo. To the frustration of detectives it was not judged strong enough to charge him.In March 2010 the body of Elisa Claps was found, a few metres from where she had met Restivo 17 years previously. Her remains had been hidden in the loft of the church of the Most Holy Trinity beneath a pile of old tiles.Like Barnett, Claps had suffered brutal chest wounds probably inflicted with a knife. Most significantly, strands of her own hair cut from her head shortly after her death had been placed in each hand and locks of hair had been placed near her body. Restivo was charged with Barnett's murder two months later.His conviction after a seven-week trial at Winchester crown court is not the end of criminal proceedings against him.The Italian authorities want him extradited to face trial for the murder of Elisa Claps. If sent back, he will be returned to the UK at the end of those proceedings to serve out his sentence in Britain.Lawyers for a man convicted of murdering a student three streets away from Restivo's home four months before Barnett was killed are asking the Criminal Case Review Commission to look at whether Restivo was the real killer.Retired detective superintendent Phil James, who was involved in the Barnett investigation in the early days, said it was one of the "most traumatic" crimes he was involved in."It's the sort of thing you see in The Godfather," he said. "This result has been a long time coming and it's an absolute relief to know that this man will now be off the streets."