A financial consultant who stole £10m from the bank he worked for and from 84 private clients was yesterday jailed for 12 years, after a court heard that the money had been used to fund his obsession with gambling on horses.Graham Price spent millions on buying information from tipsters and unsuccessfully betting via the internet. He also bought shares in 13 horses and used some of the stolen funds to pay off mortgages and buy expensive cars and luxury holidays. His scam unravelled when an auditor found a signed IOU for £7m to the Halifax in his safe. Investigators found that Price, who worked as an agent for the Halifax, had been conning private clients for almost four years and the bank for 18 months.About 50 of his victims, many of them elderly, packed into Swansea crown court to see him sentenced, but afterwards many expressed anger at the Halifax, claiming it ought to have spotted his con earlier. There was also fury that the bank had written to some of the victims informing them it planned to cancel bogus payments which Price had made into their accounts. They believe the Halifax should honour those payments.Some of the victims are also frustrated that they cannot be compensated because the Halifax has already clawed back all it could from the conman - £2.3m - leaving no assets for them to claim.Passing sentence on Price, 58, Judge John Diehl QC said Price's deception was "of the gravest order". He said investors had lost homes, retirement nest eggs and inheritances. Some had been forced to sell their homes, others to return to work having retired on the money they thought Price had made for them.The judge told the grey-haired, bespectacled Price: "You were well known, trusted, liked and respected. Some investors regarded you as a personal friend, some were even employed by you. You took monies put by for children and grandchildren. One elderly woman sold her house to invest with you to pay her nursing fees."Working from his office in the village of Gowerton, near Swansea, Price seemed the epitome of a respectable businessman. Eight years ago he began working as an agent for the Halifax, running counter services for the bank while working as a financial consultant on the side. He came to be known as "Mr Halifax" in the village and the office won the agency of the year award.But last year an audit took place while Price was on holiday in New York. When the auditor looked in the safe she found a note on a slip which read "I Graham Price borrowed £7m from the Halifax" and was signed by him. Investigators found that the scam had begun in January 2001 when he started offering clients high returns for their money - up to 270% a year - by investing in property schemes.They did appear to be getting handsome returns, but in reality Price was paying the first investors with money he was getting from later investors, while siphoning off some of the funds. When the money ran low he began to steal from the Halifax and made "phantom" payments into clients' balances to keep them happy. On top of the £7m stolen from the bank he had taken £3m from private clients.Peter Douglas-Jones, defending, said Price always hoped his gambling would come good and he would be able to pay everyone back. The IOU showed him "clinging to the hope, the belief, the prayer, that he would come right with the bets".One of the victims, Jennifer Ellis, who used to work for Price, said: "The village is the sort of place where everyone knows everyone. He was trusted by us all and has devastated lives."Speaking on behalf of a support group set up by about 40 of the victims, Ms Ellis criticised the Halifax. The bank has frozen the accounts of some of the victims and told them it intends to cancel some "phantom" payments Price had added to their balances.Ms Ellis said: "Not only have many of us lost our life savings, but some of us are now facing demands from the Halifax bank for the return of payments made to us." The group plans to take legal action against the bank.The Halifax insisted it was not responsible for customers conned by Price when he acted in his private capacity as a financial adviser. A spokesman said the bank was within its rights to cancel "phantom" payments, and denied that the bank should have spotted Price's wrongdoing sooner, saying he had stolen from it between two audits.Price admitted 43 counts of theft and deception and asked for 263 similar offences to be taken into account. 'I have been near to cracking up'Case study: Suzie Mills, 58, from Devon, entrusted £500,000 from the sale of her home and B&B business to PriceDrawn in by promises of huge returns, Suzie Mills invested £500,000 she had pocketed from the sale of her successful bed and breakfast and her home with Graham Price. She hoped the investment would allow her to set up a healing and spiritual centre.Today she is living in a rented flat and has had to take on low-paid work in a nursing home. She said: "I have been very near to cracking up completely. I do not know how I have got through it. My whole life has totally and utterly been destroyed. It made my confidence go, it made everything go. When you wake up afraid every day it has to have an effect on your health."Ms Mills is from Devon, but she heard about Price's operation in south Wales and thought investing with him too good a chance to miss. She said: "I had heard about Graham Price through friends and I knew their standard of living had improved. I had no doubt about the investment."Ms Mills was so taken in by Price that she encouraged a male friend to entrust his savings to him. He died 10 weeks ago of cancer and was troubled to the end by anxiety about how he was going to cope financially. "He was my dearest friend and I told him about this investment," she said. "He'd never had a lot of money and this was something that could give him a real lift."In the same week he found out about Graham being arrested, he was also told he had cancer. The last few months of his life were extremely unpleasant not just because of his illness but because he was worried sick about how he was going to survive."She said that her account had now been frozen by the Halifax, which is planning to cancel "phantom" payments made by Price, a move which was causing her "stress, fear and tension". She added: "It has all been a nightmare, an absolute nightmare."