The children's secretary, Ed Balls, today rejected calls for the age of criminal responsibility to be raised, while arguing it was wrong to describe the killers of James Bulger as "intrinsically evil".Over the weekend, the children's commissioner was criticised by James's mother, Denise Fergus, for saying the age of criminal responsibility should be increased from 10 to 12 and that the toddler's killers should not have stood trial because they were too young.Balls said the comments by Dr Maggie Atkinson, whose appointment only came after he overruled a select committee's recommendation that she should not get the job, were "ill-advised".In a newspaper interview on Saturday, Atkinson described the murder as a "terrible case", but argued it was wrong his killers stood trial in an adult court. "What they did was exceptionally unpleasant and the fact that a little boy ended up dead is not something that the nation can easily forget," she said. "But they shouldn't have been tried in an adult court because they were still children." Atkinson said that the age of criminal responsibility should be raised to 12, in comments condemned by Fergus as "twisted and insensitive".Reacting to the interview today ‑ and mistakenly referring to Fergus as Mrs Bulger ‑ Balls said he "disagreed" with Atkinson's sentiments, but said she was independent of government and it was her job to stand up for children and young people."I thought it was ill-advised, not just for Mrs Bulger but for many people. The scars of what was done to James Bulger are very deep," he said. "In this case my sympathies are with Mrs Bulger, not the children's commissioner," he continued, although he said he did support Atkinson's assertion that it is wrong to describe a child as inherently immoral."I think we have to be very careful about labelling any child as intrinsically evil. Children are very affected by what happens to them as they are growing up," Balls said. "I think what they did to James Bulger was evil, but I'm not willing to say the children were intrinsically evil."Balls said he believed in rehabilitation and helping a child to change and giving them a second chance. Yesterday, Lady Butler-Sloss, the former judge who granted the killers anonymity in 2001, said that she had great sympathy with Atkinson's views but did not think that the public would accept her ideas."I do not believe the government, any government of any political persuasion, could introduce this at the moment," she said. "I have great sympathy with the children's commissioner but I believe it is unworkable because I do not think the public will accept it. The way I would like to go forward is to keep it as it is for the moment, because of public opinion, but to make it much more difficult to send such children to prison."Fergus called for Atkinson to "resign or be sacked" after her comments. "To say that his killers should not have been tried in an adult court is stupid," she said. "They committed an adult crime – a cold-blooded murder that was planned and premeditated – and they were tried accordingly."She added: "It is a shock to people like Dr Atkinson that children can be truly evil by 10. But it is a fact and I fear there will be more of them and we need laws to be tightened up so we can deal with them."The Ministry of Justice has said it does not intend to raise the age of criminal responsibility, saying it is "not in the interests of justice".The age of criminal responsibility in England and Wales was raised from eight to 10 in 1963. In the rest of the EU, 12 to 14 is more common. A 2003 UN convention called for the UK to raise the age of criminal responsibility "considerably".