Two teenagers were found guilty of murder yesterday after they beat to death a man with wooden stakes outside his Chinese takeaway shop. The boys, aged 15 and 17, cannot be identified for legal reasons. They were convicted of the murder of Mi Gao Huang Chen, 41, known as Michael, following a two-week trial at Liverpool crown court.Mr Chen died in the neuro-intensive care unit of Hope hospital, Salford, five days after the attack in April this year. The court heard he had at least seven "blunt trauma" injuries to the head and neck, and his skull and jaw were fractured during the assault outside the Superb Hut in Scholes, near Wigan. He had been punched and kicked and had his head stamped on.The jurors were unable to reach a verdict on a 17-year-old girl who had been accused of murder. She was acquitted after she pleaded guilty to a lesser charge of violent disorder. Another teenager was cleared of murder and manslaughter by the jury, who had deliberated for two days.Two other teenage boys, both aged 16, had pleaded guilty to murder before the start of the trial. They were seen to hit Mr Chen so forcefully with a stick or wooden stake that one of the defendants compared the noise to a cricket ball being struck by a bat.The assault was captured on closed circuit television and the footage was repeatedly played to the jury, with each defendant circled on the screen. The prosecution said the blows landed on Mr Chen were "forceful, deliberate and plain to see".The footage showed Mr Chen, his girlfriend Ming Yan Jia, known as Eileen, and their chef Wah, confronting the youths outside the Superb Hut. Ms Ming was seen chasing the youths as she held a wrench or spanner in her hand. They ran into a nearby housing estate but later returned and armed themselves with weapons, including a garden spade, hoe, tree branch and heavy wooden stakes.As the confrontation between the two groups escalated, one of the boys who was found guilty of murder yesterday kicked Mr Chen to the floor. He then kicked him three times and punched him as several of the teenagers gathered round to attack their victim, who was lying on the ground.The other teenager convicted of murder was seen repeatedly and forcefully to tamp on Mr Chen's head. One of the teenagers was overheard to repeat "I'll fucking kill you" as he confronted Mr Chen and Ms Ming with a piece of wood.The court heard that the assault was prompted by an earlier confrontation between the youths and the Chinese takeaway workers, when a teenage girl was allegedly struck on the head.The four teenagers will be sentenced at Manchester crown court at a later date.