The Metropolitan police has begun reinvestigating more than 1,500 unsolved stranger rape cases dating back to 1987, with senior detectives confident that hundreds of offenders can still be prosecuted, the Guardian can reveal.The "cold case reviews" have been made possible by improvements in forensic analysis which mean DNA samples not found at the time of the offences can now be retrieved from clothes and other crime scene material. A first batch of 25 cases has been studied by the forensic science service. New DNA in six of the cases has matched samples stored on the national database, giving police prime suspects for those offences. The Met believes the potential for clearing up unsolved rape cases is "huge" and is optimistic that a one in three success rate might be achievable. "We will undoubtedly uncover serial rapists who have been totally undetected in the past," said Detective Chief Inspector Richard Walton, head of the Met's rape investigations unit, Operation Sapphire. "If I was a rapist then I would be worried because sooner or later we are going to get to you. These investigations will take my team all over the UK. A one in three 'hit' rate in 1,500 cases would mean 500 cases solved. One in five or one in 10 would still be well worthwhile." He added: "I think we are obliged to look at these cases again. We cannot justify not doing it. We have evidence sitting in our laps that could convict people of one of the most serious crimes. Most of these characters are the most dangerous people around who are probably involved in a host of other offences." The commitment to look again at 1,544 unsolved rape cases between 1987 and 1999 is the biggest review exercise ever undertaken by a single force and was inspired by the pioneering work of police in Northumbria where detectives disclosed yesterday they had reopened the files on 60 cases and had DNA hits on 38. Five people have already been arrested and last week the force had its first success in the courts, when Mark Wilkinson, a 25-year-old salesman, was jailed for five years for raping a 19-year-old Newcastle University student in 1995. "We now think we may have a lead on a series of rapes that occurred in north Tyneside in the mid-1980s," Detective Inspector Peter Farrell said. "We believe one man may have committed between four and nine offences. This is about getting justice for the victims." The Met is the first of the country's major forces to undertake cold case reviews of rape cases. It has by far the largest volume of unsolved offences. Det Ch Insp Walton has set up a small team of detectives within Operation Sapphire to assess the results of the new forensic tests. "The next batch of cases has already gone over to the forensic science service," he said. "We will go through them as quickly as we can. This is a rolling process. It is going to take time and cost money, but a very real outcome is that we are going to get guys locked up for rape." Detectives acknowledge that they have to tread very carefully when reopening unsolved rape cases. "The victims will be many years older, their lives have moved on, and we have to be sensitive to how they will feel if they get a knock on the door from the police about something that happened many years ago," said Det Ch Insp Walton. In cases where fresh evidence has emerged, officers have been told to research the background of the suspect and the victim before deciding what to to next. There are two types of "stranger" rape. The first is an offence where the victim does not know the offender at all and may have been stalked beforehand. The second involves the victim having met the suspect briefly, such as a "date rape". The suspect may also be an acquaintance. The Met estimates that between 25% and 30% of all rape allegations in London are stranger offences. "Nationally there were 70,000 allegations of rape between 1986 and 1999," said Det Ch Insp Walton. "Even if you look at only 10% of those cases, that's 7,000 cases that could be looked at. And even if you only get a success in 10% of those cases, that's 700 cases solved." The Met is hoping to persuade the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Home Office to agree a national strategy so other forces can launch their own initiatives. The force is also seeking a seven-figure sum from the Home Office to speed up the reviews.