Like classical ballet, the routine revelation of government incompetence has begun to follow an established choreography. First comes the shock of the initial exposé. Then comes a more tranquil dance, as ministers reassure the public that they had known nothing of the mess and that they are already clearing it up. Turbulence returns as new facts from Sunday papers inspire fresh attacks on the government. At this point in proceedings, often the most dangerous for ministers, attention shifts from the initial failing to quibbles over who knew what when. Amid all this, it becomes hard to judge real scandal from manufactured outrage.This is certainly true of the current drama, over the Home Office's blundering failure to track criminals who have offended abroad. It is shaping into a traditional, unexciting production, one that left MPs dozing in the chamber yesterday as they questioned Home Office ministers. But what has gone on is neither insignificant nor yet fully explained.At root the problem lies in a malfunctioning of institutional memory. Incompetent administration, which is what sluggish and patchy processing of 27,000 criminal records sent from abroad amounts to, will crop up in any department. But the Home Office has shown itself to have particular weaknesses. The department's misleading initial claim that all of the 540 most serious cases had at least been processed added to the gravity of the situation when it turned out to be incorrect. But as in other recent controversies, from the foreign prisoner releases that did for Charles Clarke through to the admission this month that there is no accurate tally of the number of convicts on the run, the fault lies in the way policy has been implemented. The question is whether ministers can reasonably be accused of failing to sort things out, as they should have done.They can plead that the Home Office's weaknesses are not a new discovery. A decade ago records were far patchier, being updated so sluggishly that judges would frequently pass sentences on people without knowing about even British convictions. That was put right, and then, after two high-profile cases of murder across European borders, the council of ministers settled in November 2005 to try for the first time to enforce systematic record-sharing between member states.Yet old difficulties are hardly an excuse for new failures. If, as seems likely, certain officials are found not to have done their job, then it is reasonable that they should be held to account, just as they would be for failing in other lines of work. But the opposition understandably wants to pin the blame on ministers. In John Reid's favour, although only just, is the fact that the main faults seem to have taken place just before his own tenure began - with his year-zero declaration that he had inherited a department that was "not fit for purpose". That may help him this time, but unless he is again reshuffled with the speed with which he has so often been in the past, by the time the next scandal hits he will find it harder to pass the buck.And arrive the next scandal will, for in criminal justice more than any other area, natural public anxiety combines with tabloid fear-mongering to encourage expectations that run way ahead of the protection it is possible to provide. The hyperactivity of New Labour's approach to crime - so often to legislate first, and think only second - raises these risks to new heights, by further ramping up expectations and distracting officials from running things well. The results, as an audit of the government's record from the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies confirmed yesterday, have been mixed.Mr Reid's response has been to point the finger of blame at his own department. But this only adds to its difficulties. Recognising failure is one thing. Using that as an excuse to avoid blame is another. Not all ballets end in sacrifice. But the dance is not over yet.