So what should be done with "neighbours from hell"? Banish them all to indestructible houses under the motorway, according to Labour MP Frank Field. It may seem a far-fetched proposal, but another of the former minister's draconian ideas - to dock housing benefit from persistent nuisance neighbours - is now a central plank of the government's antisocial behaviour bill, which is expected to become law this autumn. Launching the plan, work and pensions minister Andrew Smith suggested that people who committed such acts were forfeiting their right to state help. "The government sympathises," he says, "with those who question whether it is right for the state to support the housing costs of people whose behaviour brings misery to the lives of individuals and communities." The kinds of issues and behaviour on Smith's hit list include "rubbish, and worse, thrown into gardens and pushed through letter boxes, incessant loud music, continual shouting and screaming, and intimidation in the street by gangs of young people, and other drunken and rowdy behaviour". According to Tony Blair, antisocial behaviour is the biggest issue facing most people in Britain. He has made tackling "yob culture" the government's domestic priority in this parliament. Tough new powers are being granted to enable authorities to clamp down. In this punitive climate, social housing landlords across the country are using a variety of antisocial behaviour orders, injunctions and possession orders to get unruly residents out. Homelessness charity Shelter estimates that almost 6,000 social housing tenants were threatened with eviction last year because of antisocial behaviour. While no one condones such behaviour, or underestimates the misery it can cause, does the zero-tolerance approach really work - or does it simply displace the problem? Manchester city council's nuisance strategy team has been feted by the antisocial behaviour "tsar", Louise Casey, for its tough stance, which has resulted in the eviction of 283 households for antisocial behaviour since 1995. But much less is known about what happens to those nuisance neighbours afterwards. Some of the families have ended up in nearby Rochdale, where Paul Beardmore, the local council's head of housing strategy, says: "We have been on the receiving end of displacement." Instead of following Manchester's lead though, Rochdale has gone against the political grain. Together with Shelter, it has set up a project that supports people to change their behaviour. The £300,000-a-year initiative helps people who are homeless, or threatened with homelessness, as a result of antisocial behaviour. In return for support for up to a year, families sign up to a good-behaviour contract. If the contract is broken, they can lose their homes. So far, the project, which started last September, has helped 35 families. None has been evicted and the number of complaints from neighbours has significantly decreased. Sinead O'Connor, project manager, says: "Those accused of antisocial behaviour are usually the most vulnerable in society, and making them homeless is just going to exacerbate the problem. What they most need is stability so that they can begin to address their behaviour." Such behaviour is more complicated to resolve than most people realise, she adds. One woman being helped by the project has mental health problems, which mean she found it difficult to turn away rowdy visitors. "She was the victim of their behaviour, but to her neighbours she was the perpetrator," says O'Connor. The Rochdale inclusion project is thought to be the first of its kind in England. In Dundee a similar scheme, set up by children's charity NCH Scotland, has been running since 1997. An independent assessment by Glasgow University found that although the Dundee Families Project cost £345,000 a year to run, it saved £462,000 in legal bills and the cost of taking children into care. Beardmore says reducing costs on empty properties, court action, homelessness services and temporary accommodation is an added bonus. But savings have never been the goal. "We did this to help stabilise communities and families," he says. So why are other councils not adopting this approach? Beardmore believes it is a political issue. "It looks better dealing with families with a hard line that gets a positive press," he says. "You don't get a positive press for helping families to avoid eviction. It's easier to sell a hard line than support and prevention." Gill Strachan, director of the Dundee scheme, adds: "This client group does not attract much sympathy and therefore may not be seen as a priority." Others believe severe punishment is the only language some unruly tenants understand. The Manchester-based Irwell Valley Housing Association is pioneering a new approach. Tenants who behave themselves and pay their rent on time get financial bonuses, day trips, and a fast repair service. Those who misbehave receive only a basic service, and persistent troublemakers are evicted.Tom Manion, the association's chief executive, says that support should be offered to help change people's behaviour. But he adds: "If they consistently misbehave, there has to be punishment and some kind of sanction." Five weeks ago, two Irwell Valley staff had to be put up in a hotel after they were threatened, on one of the association's estates, by a man with a sawn-off shotgun. "If they continue to wreck neighbourhoods, they [should] forfeit their rights to a tenancy, to benefits and social services," says Manion. "If they knew that the consequences were going to be that serious, people would change their behaviour." Field firmly believes that if the threat of benefit cuts does not work, the worst families should be moved to purpose-built properties away from the rest of the community. He claims that the area near the docks in his Birkenhead constituency has been "destroyed" by just two families, whose behaviour was so bad that other residents started to abandon the area. He claims it will cost £5m to rebuild the neighbourhood. Meanwhile, the two families have been rehoused in another part of the town. "Everybody has said I must be joking, but I have said to the prime minister that we need some money to build indestructible properties away from other people," Field says. "In Birkenhead, that happens to be under the motorway. There are only about six families that cause real trouble in our area. If all attempts to get them to behave reasonably fail, they should be separated from other people, and be able to torment themselves until they learn to behave better." Shelter director Adam Sampson dismisses the notion. "Fantasies about reviving penal islands under the motorway are not worth considering," he says. But he is concerned that the government has over-emphasised punishment as a way of dealing with the problem. "Ministers seem unwilling to give as much prominence to the more constructive solutions as they do to the punitive ones," Sampson says. "Withdrawing housing benefit, which is there to pay for one of life's necessities, is an extremely short-sighted measure. It will just create more debt and homelessness." Councils such as Manchester have been encouraged by government rhetoric to take an "over-zealous" approach, according to Shelter. But Manchester defends its approach. A council spokesman says: "We are proud of our record; it sends out a strong message to tenants that we expect them to behave. It's not about punishment; it is about preventing the problem." When a household is evicted for antisocial behaviour, councils no longer have a duty to house them, because in legal terms they have made themselves homeless. Not all councils take such a hard line - Rochdale, for one, does so rarely - but those that do in effect drive tenants into the private rented sector. "The biggest irony is that when they are evicted from a council property, antisocial tenants can move up the road to a house in the private sector where the council has no control of their behaviour," says Ben Taylor, a partner with Manchester solicitors Glaisyers. The city council's tough stance means that 70% of his time is spent on neighbour nuisance, and he claims that the policy can result in rough justice for some tenants. "Manchester takes an unsympathetic line, and that's fine for some cases, but in others vulnerable tenants get tarred with the same brush," Taylor says. "They should be given assistance, rather than eviction." According to Taylor, the adversarial nature of court action simply entrenches views in neighbour disputes. He favours mediation as a more appropriate method. Rachel Newton, senior case worker at Shelter's Manchester housing aid centre, agrees. "We have seen cases where very complex social or health problems within families are viewed too simplistically as antisocial behaviour by the council," she says. "For example, women suffering domestic violence are treated as a problem of antisocial behaviour." For all its so-called success, there is not one example of Manchester's approach leading to any reduction in nuisance behaviour, Newton says. "As yet there is no evidence that Manchester council has had any impact upon the level of antisocial behaviour," she says. However, that might be about to change. There is talk of the NCH in England setting up a project, similar to that in Dundee, in Manchester of all places - and in partnership with the council. Recognition, finally, that punishment alone will not solve the problems that make people nuisance neighbours? 'He would have ended up killing someone - or someone would have killed him'Twelve-year-old James Edwards and his two pals have caused havoc all over Rochdale. The mini-gang, called "the terrible threesome" by James's mother, liked to pelt neighbouring houses with eggs and water bombs. They also lobbed stones at passing cars and tried to derail trains by putting bricks on the line. James caused so much trouble that he, his six-year-old sister and their mother have been forced to move five times in the past two years. Last November, Rochdale council threatened the Edwardses with eviction again if James's bad behaviour continued. His mother, Sally, had a serious drinking problem. "At that time, I was drunk. I just let him do what he wanted," she admits. But she decided to seek help because she feared for the safety of her son, who is hyperactive. "Eventually, he would have ended up killing someone, or someone would have killed him," she says. Sally was put in touch with the town's new inclusion project and the family was moved to another Rochdale property. James was assigned a child support worker, to help change his behaviour, and Sally was given help to cope with her alcohol addiction. The last drink she had was in December. "I had to conquer the drink before I could sort James out," Sally recognises. James now sees a child psychologist, and his support worker has encouraged him to go to drama club every Monday night. He no longer hangs out with the friends he got into trouble with. "I saw one of them a month ago," says James, "and he tried to take me to railway lines again, but I didn't go." Asked why he stopped terrorising his neighbours, James says: "I didn't want to die and I didn't want to make other people die or go into prison. My mum kept drinking, so I wanted to help her as well." The inclusion project has nine staff employed by Shelter, including three support workers, two children's workers and one youth worker. The scheme is funded mostly (70%) through Rochdale's Supporting People budget, but there is finance also from Shelter, the government's neighbourhood renewal and children's funds, and from the Whitehall homelessness directorate. Clients are assessed initially to identify issues that need to be resolved and the support that is needed. A support plan is devised, and signed up to by the client, together with "behaviour contracts". The contract, in effect, alters the tenancy to that of a supported housing tenant. Typically, each client is visited once a week, but this is regularly reviewed. Support for children includes collaborating with their school, working on discipline, and attempting to get them involved in recreational activities. Other help includes assistance with gardening and damage to property, and "noise management" to identify, for example, when a stereo is being played too loudly.· The names of the family are all pseudonyms.