A manslaughter trial against a man accused of killing a taxi driver in a struggle over a fare was halted after it emerged that one of the jurors had conducted his own DIY investigation to get a "feel for the case".The jury was hearing the case against Dale Patterson, 18, of Sunderland, who was accused of causing the death of Raymond Quigley, 72, who suffered a heart attack last September after he grabbed Patterson in a headlock over some railings. Patterson, a student at Newcastle College, had got into the taxi around 3am on a Sunday after missing the last train home from a skateboarding event in Newcastle.But Judge David Hodson stopped the trial, which has cost around £60,000, on Monday after a jury member admitted he had visited the scene, taken his own measurements and photographed evidence. He had also researched forensic techniques over the internet and downloaded maps using Google Earth. The judge dismissed the 12-strong jury after it emerged from further questioning that the juror had also shared his findings with other members of the jury in the canteen. The juror said he had wanted to ensure the jury reached the right verdict.Details of the juror's private investigation emerged when he submitted a three-page list of questions. Inquiries by the judge revealed that he knew about information which had not been submitted by either the prosecution or the defence.Among the 37 questions submitted by the juror and read out to the court was whether the "baggy jeans the defendant was wearing, and the lace used to keep them up" were exhibits. Using a map he had printed out and submitted, he also asked for an explanation of whether the taxi had come to a halt in a natural position. In a further twist yesterday, Hodson ordered that Patterson be found not guilty of all charges after saying the crown's case was "fatally flawed" and it had not provided enough evidence to continue a trial. He said expert medical evidence showed Quigley could have died at any time and it was not proved the struggle was a direct cause of his death.Newcastle crown court heard six days of evidence in which the prosecution claimed Quigley, who had a heart condition, was trying to stop Patterson from running away without paying the fare. Patterson denied manslaughter and making off without payment. The prosecution said it would not be asking for a retrial.Quigley's widow Dorothy, 69, said: "It's was very upsetting when the jury got dismissed. It was dreadful. I'm feeling a bit devastated."