Maxine Carr broke down as she turned on Ian Huntley yesterday and said she would not be blamed for what "that thing" had done to Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.In dramatic Old Bailey exchanges with her former boyfriend's lawyer, she accused Mr Huntley of killing both girls and being abusive and "controlling" towards her. She added that she gave him a false alibi because he "pushed her into a corner", and that she did so believing the girls were alive. The court has heard that Ms Carr claimed to have been in the bath when the children called at the couple's home in Soham, Cambridgeshire, on the night they died in August last year. She was in Grimsby. Stephen Coward QC, defending Mr Huntley, suggested that she sought to put herself in a better light by claiming that she had urged her then boyfriend to tell police the truth about the girls' visit. "I don't need to put my position in a better light," Ms Carr snapped, and began to sob. Pointing across the packed courtroom to where Mr Huntley sat in the dock, accused of murdering 10-year-olds Holly and Jessica, she added: "I know exactly what I have done, sir. I have come in this witness box to say what I have done. And I'm not going to be blamed for what that thing in that box has done to me or those children." Mr Coward asked what she had meant in saying that she had "never heard before what I have heard in the last few days". She replied: "The evidence that Mr Huntley gave. That the children died. That he killed those children." Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the schoolgirls but admits conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. He claims that Holly died accidentally in the couple's bathroom and that he killed Jessica inadvertently as he tried to muffle her screams. Ms Carr, who was a classroom assistant at the girls' school, denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender. The jury was told that neither defendant had previous convictions as the defence cases closed yesterday. For much of Ms Carr's evidence she spoke of her former fiance as "Mr Huntley" or "that man", referring only occasionally to "Ian". She said that even when arrested for murder she did not tell police about his "very controlling" attitude. "I told them that I wasn't being controlled by anybody -that there was no violence against me. Yet again, to cover for Ian," she said. "I'm hardly going to tell them he's an abusive person who controls you." "Why not?" asked Mr Coward. "Because I was scared I was going home to that man at the end of the day," she replied. Mr Coward accused her of portraying Mr Huntley as a "domestic bad man" when in fact it was not true. "It is very, very, very true," said Ms Carr. The lawyer suggested that her resilience under police questioning showed that she had a mind of her own. "I have a mind of my own now," she said. "I have had 16 months away." Mr Coward pointed out that the interviews took place in August last year. "It obviously proves I didn't know what I was doing, because I said this man hadn't killed those children," she replied. But she later said she "loved that man, no matter what he did to me". She agreed that the couple were equal partners and that she could take care of herself. She added: "I tried to do my best for Ian. He supports me and looks after me... or looked after me." In further cross-examination, Richard Latham QC, for the prosecution, suggested that she could have told the truth when a police officer spoke to the couple five days after the girls' disappearance. Ms Carr replied: "I was not allowed to at the time, sir. He interviewed Ian first. Ian said he was washing the dog [when the girls came round] and I was upstairs in the bath... I could hardly turn round and say 'No, Ian, that's lying'." She then "had no choice" but to continue lying because Mr Huntley told police that she had not made a statement. "Yes, I did lie. But I was pushed into a corner to do it," she said. "Mr Huntley put me into a position where I could not do anything but that. I could hardly say 'No, I'm not, I've been telling lies'." She feared that the couple would otherwise be arrested. Mr Coward pointed out that in police interviews Ms Carr claimed Mr Huntley urged her not to lie. "He was unhappy, but he didn't stop me from doing it," she said. She went on to stress that she "had done nothing to those girls". Asked if that made it all right to lie, she replied: "It doesn't make it all right, it makes none of this all right." She broke down again as she insisted she had believed both girls were safe. "They were alive when they left my house because that man said so," she said. Re-examining his client, Michael Hubbard QC said the prosecution suggested she had known by Tuesday evening - two days after the girls disappeared - that they were dead. He asked if she had slept in the same bed as Mr Huntley that night. She sobbed: "Yes." She continued to sleep alongside him until their arrest. "Would you have been in the same bed if you believed for a moment that he had killed those children?" he asked. Fighting back tears, Ms Carr replied: "I wouldn't have been in the same house as him." Mr Hubbard asked: "Did you use that bathroom?" "Yes." "To bathe in?" Ms Carr sobbed as she replied that she had. "Would you have dared to use that bath if you knew that one of the girls had drowned there?" "No," she said. The case continues.