A mother has been found guilty of murder after stamping to death her 21-month-old child at the family home. Kathryn Smith, 23, was convicted of killing Ayeeshia Jane Smith at the flat where they lived in Burton upon Trent in Staffordshire, on 1 May 2014.Throughout the six-week trial, Smith denied having anything to do with her daughter’s death. She was also convicted of cruelty to a child at the end of what the lead police investigator described as a “harrowing, horrible and heartbreaking” case.Smith’s former partner Matthew Rigby, 22, who also protested his innocence throughout the trial at Birmingham crown court, was earlier found guilty of causing or allowing the toddler’s death but was cleared of murder.Ayeeshia, also known as AJ, suffered a fatal collapse at home just over three weeks after Derbyshire county council social services had discussed taking her into care due to fears that Smith was a victim of domestic abuse.According to pathologists, the toddler died from a fatal heart laceration most likely caused by a foot stamp – the sort of injury doctors usually see only in crash victims.A serious case review launched by the Derbyshire safeguarding children board to look at health and social services’ involvement in the lead-up to the child’s collapse will now examine new evidence that emerged during trial, the body said.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Matthew Rigby cried when found guilty of allowing AJ’s death. Photograph: Joe Giddens/PASmith claimed in court that she had left Rigby alone with her daughter for “a couple of moments” on the day of her death while she went to get some juice. However, her ex-partner provided jurors with a different account in the witness box, saying it “must have been her” who killed Ayeeshia.It emerged that Ayeeshia had what one medical expert told the jury was a concerning pattern of injuries, including a historical brain bleed that had gone undiagnosed.Twice after the couple began dating, the girl was taken to hospital, once after what a consultant paediatrician later described to the jury as “an apparent life-threatening incident” on 3 February 2014.Smith had been out shopping and Rigby said he had been about to take a shower when he claimed to have heard a noise and found Ayeeshia lying in her cot and turning blue.She was diagnosed at hospital with a febrile fit linked to a high temperature and was later allowed home. A consultant paediatrician told the jury there seemed little basis for such a conclusion.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   One of the photos taken of Ayeeshia Jane Smith before her death showing marks to her face and the underside of her chin which were shown to the jury during the trial. Photograph: Staffordshire police/PAThe couple gave opposing accounts in court of what happened on 19 March 2014 when Ayeeshia ended up at Queen’s hospital in Burton with a badly cut lip.There had been reports of domestic incidents earlier in the year between Smith and Rigby, who had two previous convictions for assault. A child protection medical evaluation was carried out on Ayeeshia after cuts to her chin and lip and a bald patch appeared on her head. No further concerns were raised however and the child went home with her mother.In the early hours of 4 April 2014, Smith called 999 after a heated row between the couple, claiming her partner had threatened to torch the flat.On a recording of that call, the little girl’s voice could be heard saying “Mummy?” and crying as the couple argued with each other. The previous month a next-door neighbour heard a row and the voice of an little girl saying “stop Mummy, stop Daddy,” the court heard.Ayeeshia’s case was discussed by care workers after the April 999 call came to light but they decided to provide domestic abuse support to Smith and to continue to monitor the situation.Stephen Crean, a former senior social worker, told the jury he had no safeguarding concerns in relation to Rigby, but said Smith had been asked to sign an agreement pledging not to see him. Smith, described by one social worker as “isolated”, refused to sign the document.The child remained with her mother but at a key child safeguarding meeting the day before Ayeeshia’s death it was agreed that a domestic abuse professional would visit Smith. Crean texted Smith to arrange the visit, but in the late afternoon of 1 May, Ayeeshia collapsed at home and never recovered.Smith and Rigby, both from Nottingham, will be sentenced on Monday. The couple’s relationship continued after the death and Smith was seen giving a silver-coloured locket containing her daughter’s ashes to Rigby while at court.Ayeeshia’s natural father, Ricky Booth, said in a court statement after the verdicts: “I now wish my daughter had been placed in permanent care as she may well have been alive and still with us now.“Nothing will bring my daughter back and I hope in time the anger goes away and I am left with the limited time I had with AJ and not the thought of her suffering.”