It did not occur to Yasir Abdelmouttalib to be afraid. And he paid little heed to friends warning him against wearing Islamic white robes to prayers.That decision seems to have cost him his health and his future. It almost cost him his life. Yesterday the trial ended of three 14-year-old boys accused of a vicious attack on the 22-year-old university graduate as he waited for a bus in Willesden, north-west London, one Friday afternoon in June. The jury heard how three boys taunted and spat at Mr Abdelmouttalib through the bus window and how, when he remonstrated, one boy took ferocious revenge. Mr Abdelmouttalib, a tall, slight figure, was repeatedly punched and kicked and struck in the head with a heavy roadsweepers' broom. One teenager was convicted at Harrow crown court of causing grievous bodily harm with intent and will be sentenced on December 20. Two others, who denied taking part in the attack, were acquitted. Mr Abdelmouttalib was unable to give evidence. He remains in hospital, brain damaged and paralysed. He has lost most of his sight. He told the Guardian that he still retained his spirit: "Everything has changed, but they will not defeat me ... I was an active man. Now I can't do anything. I can't read, my memory is failing. I had to stop my studies." He hopes to do a PhD one day. "But who can tell? My life is in the hands of Allah." His speech is slow and slurred, but his anger is palpable. "I would sentence him to death because as far as I am concerned, he wanted to kill me. He hit me as if I had sworn at him or killed someone he loved." He believes his tunic and beard may have singled him out. "All the time television talks about Osama bin Laden and I think they thought, 'Let's take revenge.' They are not human beings. No human would attack someone like this." Mr Abdelmouttalib was born in Morocco but his family lives in Saudi Arabia. He went to Scotland to study and obtained a mechanical engineering degree from Napier University, Edinburgh. The court heard that three boys on a bus began shouting and spitting as Mr Abdelmouttalib prepared to board. On boarding, he remonstrated before he and three boys were ejected. Witnesses told the jury that one boy led the assault. A woman told the court she saw the broom "going up and down" while another witness pleaded for them to stop. A police officer saw a group leaving the scene laughing. What happened afterwards seems to have caused as much controversy. Officials from the Islamic Human Rights Commission (IHRC), which has been helping Mr Abdelmouttalib, claim that Scotland Yard seemed keen to establish whether the victim had any links with Islamic extremists. They say that officers took evidence from Mr Abdelmouttalib's residence. His friends claim they were asked what mosques he attended and whether he often changed his mobile phone. Questions are also being asked about NHS treatment, because health officials expressed concern about making long-term arrangements for Mr Abdelmouttalib before he earned permanent residency. The Met accepts that inquiries were made into his background but maintains they were necessary at the start of the case when they knew nothing about the victim and needed to establish a motive. At the end of the trial, Detective Superintendent Neil Wilson said the victim's family had thanked investigators for their "tireless" efforts. "My officers were shocked by the ferociousness of this attack," he said. Mr Abdelmouttalib's mother, Malika, sat in the court's public gallery. Afterwards she said of her son's attacker: "I am sad for him because I just don't think he knows any better." She added: "I am sad for this society, too."