In the bad old days, up to the 1960s, becoming a barrister was largely limited to the well off and the well connected. A few working class young men and (many fewer) women managed to break into the profession, but, on the whole, getting a pupillage in a barristers' chambers - the necessary prelude to practice at the bar - was more a question of whom you knew than how good you were.The financial cushion was needed because, as a pupil, you were paid nothing, or a pittance. Then came the golden years. The explosion of legal aid, the availability of local authority study grants and a realisation by the bar that hiring someone because he was related to a toff didn't necessarily produce a good barrister, opened up the bar to a new generation, who were there purely on ability. We're now back in the dark ages. Legal aid is disintegrating; grants to study law are virtually non-existent and a law student leaving university has at least £20,000 debts, even before going to bar school and seeking pupillage - which hundreds fail to find.The profession is well aware of, and troubled by, the trend. Large numbers of potentially excellent barristers are being lost - at a time when competition from solicitors is growing swiftly. A law lord, Lord Neuberger, will report on the issue in a few weeks. In anticipation, the bar's chairman, Geoffrey Vos QC, announces today initiatives to make the profession more "accessible to the most able candidates from any background ... race, gender or socio-economic group". It includes a programme to persuade gifted children from state schools to consider going to the bar, and a package of cheap bank loans for aspiring barristers from poorer backgrounds. Creating an equal opportunities bar is not easy. Any small steps towards it are welcome.Legal opinion in the US is divided on the question of Judge Larry Seidlin. Was he attempting to get his own courtroom television show or is that just his natural manner? Seidlin was the judge who decided where the body of Anna Nicole Smith should be buried. The fact that he wept - indeed, some insisted, sobbed - as he made his ruling (earning him the soubriquet Weepy Wacko) was the culmination of legal proceedings which, one lawyer commented, "gives circuses a bad name". Seidlin, a former cab-driver with a heavy Bronx accent and a penchant for one-liners, gabbled about his wife, a tuna sandwich and his exercise routine; told a blonde lawyer she was beautiful; took calls on his mobile; and addressed the lawyers by their home state instead of their names. Whether Seidlin's future lies as a judge or an entertainer - or back driving cabs - is a subject of heated debate. Still, he came to the right conclusion. Anna Nicole Smith is to be buried in the Bahamas, next to her son.