Changes more sweeping than expected to the rules of double jeopardy and the rules of evidence were last night disclosed in the publication of the government's criminal justice white paper, Justice For All.The wide-ranging programme of reform reinforces the break with the "prison works" philosophy of previous governments, but the home secretary, David Blunkett, confirmed yesterday that lack of Treasury finance means that one of his main alternatives to prison - "custody plus" - will have to wait until after the next election. The chancellor, Gordon Brown, has sanctioned the resources for pilot schemes and for the earlier introduction of weekend prisons and "custody minus", a new form of suspended sentence. Some £600m is to be invested in information technology to speed cases through the justice system. "We have enough resources to do quite a lot alongside and immediately after the legislation. We do not have the resources within this spending review to implement custody plus in the way it would be envisaged if it were nationwide... these will be phased in over the next five to 10 years," said Mr Blunkett. The lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, went out of his way last night to announce the judges' "broad support" for the "blueprint for the next decade". But he added: "A critical question is, will the reforms be properly resourced? If they are not, they will fail. "The white paper would then have raised expectations only to dash them, further damaging public confidence," Lord Woolf told a City of London judicial dinner last night. The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats also gave a broad welcome to the majority of the white paper's plans to put victims and witnesses at the centre of the criminal justice process, but warned of different elements that they believed were "fraught with danger". The shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, was anxious about the reform of the ancient double jeopardy law which is to be retrospective and cover armed robbery and rape as well as murder and manslaughter cases. He warned that ministers may be "tempted to convey the impression of effective action by changing features and principles of our criminal justice system in a way that will, in the long term, under mine rather than strengthen public confidence in that system". Retrials are to be sanctioned by the director of public prosecutions when new evidence such as DNA comes to light. The Liberal Democrats' spokesman, Simon Hughes, voiced concern over the disclosure of previous convictions to juries, including acquittals, if they are relevant in the case. The protests of Chris Mullin, chairman of the Commons home affairs committee, that he "remains to be persuaded" suggests the government faces real trouble among its own backbenchers on the issue. Civil liberties campaigners warned that measures such as the disclosure of past conduct, including acquittals, would lead to an erosion of the rights of defendants that would seriously damage British justice. Many, however, breathed a sigh of relief that predicted plans for a wholesale attack on the right for defendants to jury trial for a wide range of middle-ranking offences were absent from the government's plans. Mr Blunkett insisted that his proposals would not prejudice the defendant's right to a fair trial. "We will rebalance the rules of evidence and trust magistrates, judges and juries to make decisions on all the relevant information," he said.