A woman who concealed the births of four stillborn babies and kept three of them in her wardrobe for more than 20 years was given a community order today.Bernadette Quirk, 55, of St Helens, Merseyside, illegally buried one baby in a cemetery and kept the others wrapped in newspaper and rags in a small plastic bin with an air freshener, Liverpool crown court heard.She said she gave birth to the babies between 1985 and 1995. Their remains were discovered last July by her daughter, Joanne Lee, who contacted police.Quirk admitted four charges of concealing births and was given a two-year community order, subject to supervision, and ordered to take part in a women's intervention project.Anya Horwood, opening the case for the prosecution, said Quirk, a mother of three, fell into a "chaotic and dysfunctional" lifestyle following the breakup of her second marriage in the mid-1980s. "The defendant's heavy drinking significantly impaired her ability to look after her children, her family and herself. She had a number of sexual relationships during this period."There was no explanation about why Quirk kept the remains with her, moving home several times in the intervening years. She said two of the stillborn babies were twins, although DNA evidence suggested it was possible she was wrong.At the end of July last year, her daughter discovered the remains of one baby in the wardrobe at her house. She already knew about another, buried in St Helens cemetery in the late 1990s, and asked a friend to contact police.Officers searched the property and Quirk directed them to the remains of two more infants, also wrapped up in the bedroom. She admitted to police she had given birth to four stillborn baby girls.Forensic tests suggested they had congenital disorders and Quirk was charged with concealing birth contrary to the Offences Against the Person Act 1861. Her barrister, Ian Morris, said she embarked on a series of relationships following the breakdown of her marriage.He said she hid the pregnancies because she was ashamed of what she had done and did not believe in abortion. She desperately wanted to hide the pregnancies to protect herself and her family and suffered the pain of childbirth without comfort or support.Quirk, who has chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, had been forced to move away from her home and family after the offences emerged and regretted the distress her actions had caused to her family. Three fathers of the dead infants were traced by police and gave victim impact statements, which were handed to Judge Henry Globe QC but not read out in court.The judge told Quirk: "You led a chaotic and dysfunctional lifestyle in the course of which you became pregnant on a number of occasions. This is not a case of forgetting or putting it out of your mind. You had constant thoughts of your concealment."While the circumstances and reason for the stillborn births will never be established, your chaotic lifestyle of alcoholism and promiscuity were such as to put the good health of your unborn children at risk."The judge said that the fathers of the babies, and Quirk's surviving children, had all been affected by her actions. He said she had had to suffer four stillborn children, then live with the consequences of their deaths and concealment, which must have caused much anxiety and distress.Outside court, Morris said: "It's quite clear she did this to spare her family shame, and unfortunately that's exactly what's not happened. She's extremely regretful for that. She's very sorry to her family and she hopes they will forgive her. That's the priority on her mind. She's not concerned about herself. And the cruel irony is this has all dramatically backfired on her. She regrets deeply what has happened, but just wishes to apologise, primarily to her family."She was grateful to the judge for his extremely humane approach to the case, he said, adding that the rumour-mongers had been "a little unkind" to her.