I took early retirement from the CID back in 1985 and set up my own agency, VIS Ltd, in 1991. We specialise in inquiries relating to the motor financing industry. Our bread and butter work is repossessing vehicles for finance companies. I have three fraud investigators on the ground, and a vehicle repossession team - nine of us in total. Although we're based in the North West we will cover the whole country.As most of us are ex-CID, we do the necessary investigations and obtain the necessary witness statements and, if need be, present the case to the police, showing that there's been a deception or a theft. We do as much as we can, give the police all the necessary exhibits, and nine times out of 10 they have very little work left. Often all they have to do is circulate the car as stolen, or go out and arrest the offender. But the police system in this country really has gone to the dogs in the past 20 years. I can get a job where someone has furnished false details to obtain a car, which he has then sold on. We've proved the fraud and know who the offender is. But we then go to one police force and they'll say: 'No, we don't take that kind of inquiry on.'We do some matrimonial work - Friday afternoon specials, as we call them. At about 2pm on a Friday a husband or wife calls up needing to know what their spouse is up to; the suspense has just got too much. Every week, we can get two or three of these inquiries.We also do surveillance work for corporate clients who suspect malingering. The human resources departments will be tipped off about someone claiming to be ill, who may have a part-time job or be seen pushing a wheelbarrow. We carry out surveillance and provide video evidence where possible. We use covert cameras: body cameras, briefcase cameras, even an ordinary video camera is a good working tool. Nothing too fancy, although we have technical chaps who can make us sophisticated equipment if we need it. Beyond this, we do the bread and butter stuff such as serving bankruptcy papers, county court summonses and divorce papers. Most investigators are ex-police; the job seems to lean that way. About 25 per cent are new to the profession; but trained up they make good investigators. Some coming in from the outside are often army trained too, but you can now go on various courses - three days a week or a fortnight. You then need to join an agency and work alongside an investigator to pick up experience. It's nothing like the traditional image. I've watched documentaries that give the profession a really bad image. We pride ourselves on working within the law, and giving a damn good service. There's been such a devastating change in the police service over the past 20 years; they're completely understaffed. But we can only fill the gap to a certain extent. You go to a station and there are only three officers covering a patch that used to be covered by six. So you've got half the number of officers dealing with twice as much crime. It's a no-win situation. Some of the CID officers will say 'brilliant', because we've done most of the work. Others, who are a little more naive, will question it. We do a lot of statements for a leading mobile company; that is quite a new area for us. But the level of fraud regarding mobile phones is growing. It comes up in pockets around the country. Or there will suddenly be lots of motor finance fraud in an area and then it will suddenly die off. One finance company once asked me to liaise with a larger car dealership in the North East of England, where 30 cars had been obtained by fraudulent means in the previous two weeks. We managed to recover a significant number of them.I can only see the amount of work done by private detectives increasing. When I started in 1985 I placed an advert in the Yellow Pages and there were six of us. There are now 26 just in this one area.· Paul Kenyon, 52, is a private detective in Lancashire