A trial judge's "irritable" courtroom conduct led the appeal court yesterday to quash convictions for the third time in less than two weeks.Three court of appeal judges overturned the convictions of a young man found guilty of wounding offences last year and jailed for eight years by Judge Nicholas Medawar QC at Snaresbrook crown court. Lord Justice Judge, Ms Justice Rafferty and Sir Douglas Brown also gave their reasons for last week quashing "unsafe" convictions in two other cases presided over by the 72-year-old judge at Snaresbrook. Lawyers in the three unrelated cases persuaded the appeal judges that Judge Medawar's conduct denied their clients a fair trial. The three judges ordered a retrial in the case of Patrick Bryant, 23, of Islington, north London, who pleaded self-defence at his trial, but was convicted of causing grievous bodily harm with intent, wounding with intent to do grievous bodily harm and affray. Last week, the same judges quashed the conviction of teacher Angela Lashley, 54, of Islington, who was found guilty last September of theft and obtaining property by deception. They did not order a retrial. They also overturned the conviction last week of Trevor Dickens, but ordered a retrial in his case. Dickens, 39, of Edgware, north London, was jailed for five years and nine months after being found guilty last February of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Giving reasons today for quashing Ms Lashley's conviction, Lord Justice Judge said: "These convictions followed an unsatisfactory trial. "We expect judges to be robust, and we are not troubled when counsel are over-sensitive to criticism. We also recognise that from time to time judges will become impatient, sometimes unjustifiably so, without undermining the safety of the conviction. "The stark problem in the present case was that the judge's attitude and conduct towards counsel for the defendant was unfair. "In truth, this trial became over-infused with what appears to have been repeated and unnecessary demonstrations of inappropriate personal animosity towards counsel which involved public criticism not only of her ability, but also of her integrity. These interfered to a marked degree with the normal due process. "Our reading of the transcripts shows that the perception of any reasonable observer present at the trial would have been similarly damaged." In Mr Dickens's case, Lord Justice Judge said he and his colleagues were "troubled about the way in which this entire case was conducted by the judge, but in particular the peremptory and intemperate language with which he dismissed the defence at the very outset of the trial". This led to "errors" and "culminated in the omission from the summing up of any reference to self-defence ... and a devastating, but inappropriate comment, which would have utterly discredited the only defence which the judge left to the jury". In Mr Bryant's case, the judge said there were a number of criticisms of Judge Medawar which had not been sustained, but "there is, however, a major criticism which is". He went on: "We do not think it can be right for a judge ever to give the impression that he favours the prosecution case against that of the defendant." The judge, he concluded, had failed to maintain "neutrality". At Mr Dickens's trial, the court was told, Judge Medawar said that he had "never heard of such rubbish" when told of a proposed defence. Ms Lashley's defence counsel met with animosity, expressed by such comments from the judge as "rubbish", "nonsense" and "silliness". In Mr Bryant's case, the judge had rolled his eyes and shaken his head in response to points made by the defence. A spokesman for the office of the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolf, said the appeal court judgment would go to the presiding judges of the southeastern circuit, which covers Snaresbrook. Presiding judges refer conduct complaints to the lord chancellor or the lord chief justice "in cases where the judge's conduct is seriously impugned". Judge Medawar is due to retire within the next nine months.