Perhaps Amanda Hill should have let the incident pass. It was a Friday afternoon when a customer warned her that a man had stolen three bunches of carnations from the front of her florist's in Main Avenue.Ms Hill soon caught up with the man. But when she demanded the return of her carnations, she was punched to the ground, kicked in the stomach and legs, sworn at and had her mobile phone snatched. Four witnesses dialled 999 and a police car arrived within minutes, but the man had fled. It was a frightening experience for Ms Hill, 32, who has been running her shop, Dreams2Go, for 14 months. Most of the other shop owners in this grim corner of Southbury, one of the most deprived and crime-ridden wards in Enfield, have stories to tell. Thefts, muggings, graffiti - they have been victims of all manner of petty offences. Do people want to leave the area? Apparently not. "Why should I be forced out?" said Danny Wilson, 47, owner of the video rental shop and veteran of countless burglaries. "It's the thugs who should go. I want this neighbourhood made safe. I want to see police on the ground." The same message echoes from the equally impoverished areas of Edmonton Green in the south of the borough - where the average weekly household income is £170 - to the £1m neo-Georgian mansions of Hadley Wood in the north-west. "We heard it time and again during the local election campaign," said Andrew Stafford, a councillor and member of the Labour group that was routed on May 2. "Crime was probably the biggest issue. People said they were frightened to go out. The impression they had was that the situation was getting worse and that nothing was being done." Hoping to provide reassurance is the local police commander, Chief Superintendent Janet Williams, a highly regarded and progressive officer who has been in charge of the borough since May last year. High volume minor crime and anti-social behaviour appear to be the borough's curse. According to police statistics, there were 29,401 crimes in the 12 months to April, a 4.9% rise on the year before. It is striking that 40% of the offences were thefts and a third of all crimes were committed by boys under 17. Anecdotal evidence gathered by the council and the police suggests fear of crime has risen exponentially; the likely reason is the 19% increase in street robberies. Though Ch Supt Williams is in charge of policing, strict controls over funding mean that her powers are limited. The Met has awarded the borough £23m this year, but 80% of that will go on salaries for her 517 officers and 113 civilian staff. There are four stations and the cars to maintain, not to mention overtime. Ch Supt Williams' "greatest wish" is to hire an extra 22 civilian staff to relieve officers from clerical duties and allow them to return to frontline policing. But, she says: "I don't have the power to recruit them or the budget to pay for them." She can also get money from central government, but this is easier said than done. Under the terms of the 1998 Crime and Disorder Act, the police and the council, working with other relevant agencies, must produce a crime and disorder reduction strategy.Its targets must reflect the crime priorities which filter down from central government as well as the needs of the community. If they do not, the three-year plan will not be approved by the government office for London - which is overseen by the Cabinet Office - and bidding for projects will not be considered. In line with Whitehall thinking, Enfield's strategy for 2002-2005 has public reassurance and safer streets as its main priorities. Getting cash is a tortuous process, according to Inspector Gary Buttercase, who was seconded from the Met to work with Enfield council's community safety team to develop anti-crime initiatives. Insp Buttercase says he spends 60% of his time writing reports for meetings and that bureaucracy is stifling innovation. He gives this example. Enfield is a dumping ground for abandoned cars, with up to 1,500 being left in the borough every month. Insp Buttercase wants to put tear-proof covers on them, marked with a police/council logo. This will make the cars look less shabby and show the community that the authorities are "on the case". He believes the cost of the covers would be a few hundred pounds, but says there is "diddly squat" in the kitty for projects like this. To raise the money, he would have to write a report asking for funding and present it to the relevant committee. This alone costs an estimated £5,000, according to the council, several times the amount he needs. And that would only give approval in principle - funding would have to come from another agency. The machinations of local government are a mystery to Micky Banks, the 39-year-old manager of the social club on the Ayleycroft council estate in Bush Hill Park. He believes the area could be on the cusp of a crime wave. "There are a few teenagers who are causing trouble, throwing cans at people from the ninth floor of the blocks," says Banks. "People don't want to challenge them because they are afraid of reprisals. They want to see police around here before the situation gets out of control." Ch Supt Williams believes she may have the answer. Last January she appointed an officer to cover each of the borough's 21 wards. PC Ann Sandell, 39, is one of them. Her brief is to be a problem solver and an intelligence gatherer. Three or four times a week, PC Sandell walks around her Lower Edmonton patch, going to community groups and meeting people who have called the station with complaints about less serious crimes. From the ward officers' room at Edmonton Green police station, PC Sandell has access to the sensitive information provided to the daily briefings of all the other units. Her reports are also fed into the computer system. "I'm the eyes and ears of the police," says Sandell. "My job is to be proactive, not reactive." If Ch Supt Williams gets her way, PC Sandell will soon become a manager for a group of community support officers, the auxiliaries who will patrol the streets and have powers to issue fixed penalty fines for antisocial behaviour. The wealthier part of the borough, Hadley Wood, decided to take matters into its own hands following a spate of aggravated burglaries. Rather than wait for the introduction of community support officers - the bill is currently going through parliament - residents have decided to hire security guards. Ch Supt Williams supported the move. "They wanted the kind of 24-hour patrols we cannot provide. Their work complements what we do."