SAS veterans who served in some of the most dangerous conflicts around the world are to be used to tackle the rising level of violent crime sweeping Britain.David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, has ordered a full report on pilot schemes where local police forces have used former members of the SAS and their Navy equivalent, the SBS, to undertake surveillance operations against criminal gangs operating on council estates. Blunkett believes the use of SAS expertise will 'sharpen up' overstretched police operations. Officers regularly complain that although they know who the culprits are, they do not have the manpower to compile evidence against them. Soaring levels of car-jacking and muggings are in danger of derailing Home Office pledges to reduce the levels of crime in Britain. The Government has said that it wants the police and local authorities to come up with radical proposals to reverse the tide. 'The main problem with tackling criminal behaviour is gathering the evidence,' said a senior Home Office source. 'If there are ways that we can use legal surveillance methods and legitimate evidence gathering techniques beyond what the police are able to do then we are very interested in exploring that. 'Communities have to know that any methods that are available are being used by police forces across the country.' The move will raise concerns about the legality of using covert surveillance run by private firms that hire former SAS members who have served in the Gulf, Sierra Leone and the Balkans to catch criminals. The official insisted that any schemes launched in the future 'would be within the absolute letter of the law and legality'. Last Thursday Blunkett was briefed on the use of SAS veterans by West Midlands police to gain convictions in the Birmingham area. Police officers told the Home Secretary that only by using former Army personnel was it possible to put criminals behind bars. The police and local council hired the Surveillance Group to help detect crime. In the West Midlands project, which cost £10,000 to implement, former members of the SAS used covert surveillance to monitor criminals. Last week a man and two teenagers were convicted on burglary charges after the SAS members gave evidence in court. A 20-year-old man was given a two-year sentence, while the teenagers were sentenced to 20 months. · Blunkett will continue his battle with rank and file police officers this week when he enters the first stage of negotiations over Friday's announcement that members of the union, the Police Federation, had overwhelmingly rejected a deal linked to radical reform of pay and overtime structures. Home Office sources have warned that if the Federation kept blocking the proposals then extra money would be withdrawn.