The Government's presentation of its trio of proposals to decouple the law from politics in the British Constitution was curious. The changes look like an impromptu byproduct of the Cabinet merry-go-round rather than a considered recalibration of major institutions. Feathers have been ruffled in Westminster and the Inns of Court. But once the political dust has settled, this modern constitutional settlement will be seen as not only necessary, but even desirable.Each of the reforms - the creation of a Supreme Court, the extinction of the office of Lord Chancellor, the new method of judicial appointments - stems from the domestication of the European Convention on Human Rights. Article 6 makes an 'independent and impartial tribunal' a cornerstone of a fair trial.The notion that Law Lords could adjudicate on the meaning of legislation in whose enactment they may have been involved as members of the Upper House sat ill with the principle that justice must not only be done, but be seen to be done. The Lord Chancellor's position was more fragile. He was not so much the embodiment of the notion of separation of powers as its antithesis. The European Court of Human Rights in the McGonnell case (2000) had ruled that a lesser three-in-one, the Bailiff of Guernsey, who enjoyed legislative, executive and judicial powers, ought to have disqualified himself from sitting in a planning case on the grounds of conflict of interest. Article 6 was Lord Irvine's suicide note. His Tory predecessor, Lord Mackay, dissented in the case of Pepper v Hart where the House of Lords decided that Hansard could be used to interpret ambiguous legislation. His speech stressed the financial implications of the majority view. Some suggested this sounded not like the observations of a detached judge, but of a member of an administration dedicated to curbing public spending. Conscious of these anomalies, Law Lords spoke little in the House - in the case of purists like Lord Steyn, never - and then usually on subjects of special judicial expertise. Irvine sat less and less but when he did, critics underlined the political flavour of the issue concerned. This ambivalent position - more halfway than third way - was satisfactory to no one. Submissions to the Wakeham Commission on reform of the House of Lords (including my own) urged that the Lord Chancellor should be deprived of his judicial role and the Law Lords of their legislative one. Wakeham sidestepped the issue. The Government has now grappled with it. The creation of a Supreme Court - adequately staffed, sufficiently funded, properly accommodated - would be a valuable asset in a society increasingly addicted to litigation and in which the resolution of even life and death issues has moved from Parliament to the courts. At a time when the expansion of judicial review, enhanced by the Human Rights Act, presents the judiciary with so many cases of highly political content such a court would serve to protect the vital independence of the judiciary which Irvine's resignation letter rightly stressed. The third strand in the tapestry is the upgrading of the Judicial Appointments Commission, currently the monitor of appointments, into their maker. Judges cannot be seen to be independent of the executive if selected, and promoted, in the name of the Queen by a Minister, and in senior posts by the Prime Minister too. During the last Parliament, powerful voices, including William Hague's, were raised in favour of the scrutiny of judicial nominees by Members of Parliament. This would politicise the judiciary. Supreme Court Justices in Washington have great distinction but their appointment owes as much to their views as to their qualities. The constitutions of former British colonies contain precedents for appointment commissions. Eligibility for the bench should be carefully defined, and consideration could be given to whether membership of the Supreme Court should be confined to practising lawyers or extended to senior academics. Some will regret the abolition of the ancient office of Lord Chancellor, although the incumbent has been seen more as speaking for the executive to the judiciary than vice versa. The Government now needs to debate its plans fully if belatedly. The devil, as Article 6 shows, is always in the detail. Reform in haste, repent at leisure.· Michael Beloff is president of Trinity College, University of Oxford.