In the windswept fenland of rural Cambridgeshire, the government has embarked on a controversial treatment programme designed to protect the public from Britain's most dangerous mentally disordered criminals. But many psychiatrists see the scheme as a flawed political gesture and fear it will turn them from doctors into jailers. Staff at Whitemoor high security prison have begun piloting the programme to identify and treat serious sex and violent offenders whom they believe have an extreme form of anti-social personality disorder. More commonly known as psychopaths, these offenders are considered untreatable by many psychiatrists. The unit is the first stage of a joint programme by the Home Office, the Department of Health and the prison service to deal with "dangerous and severe personality disorder" (DSPD). The government estimates that up to 2,400 people have this condition, including 1,800 men already in high-security prisons and psychiatric hospitals, but it contends that there are no services to deal with them, despite the risks they pose. A total of 300 new, high-security placements for people with DSPD will be created by 2004, with another three centres built at Frankland prison, Durham, and Rampton and Broadmoor special hospitals in Nottinghamshire and Berkshire respectively. Further services will be developed in lower security institutions, with community-based projects expected to be piloted in south London and the north-east. Their task is considerable, not least because DSPD currently has no legal or medical basis. The term was coined by government officials following outrage over the case of Michael Stone, who had been diagnosed with a personality disorder several years before he bludgeoned to death Lin Russell and her six-year-old daughter, Megan, in Kent in 1996. Jack Straw, then home secretary, lambasted psychiatrists for washing their hands of "dangerous psychopaths". However, preventive detention of those with a personality disorder alone is not possible under current law if doctors deem it untreatable. Peter Tyrer, professor of community psychiatry at Imperial College, London, and head of a three-year study to evaluate the Whitemoor and Rampton units, says many doctors view DSPD as a political invention. "We know people are dangerous; we know people have personality disorders. What we don't know yet is that the link between the two is so strong that we can make a diagnosis of DSPD." The programme's directors concede that they currently lack conclusive evidence for their plans. On a tour of Whitemoor last month, prisons minister Beverley Hughes admitted: "We don't have all the answers at present. We're starting from a base that is virtually non-existent." But Home Office officials say the dearth of research demonstrates the need for the new units. According to an office for national statistics survey in 1998, 64% of male prisoners and 50% of female prisoners have some kind of personality disorder, with even higher rates among those on remand. Those with severe disorders often end up in isolation because they are so resistant to traditional psychotherapy and are aggressive to staff and other inmates. Many spend their lives going in and out of different institutions, with no improvement in their condition or offending behaviour. Jamie Bennett, the prison governor heading the Whitemoor scheme, says the assessment process for potential subjects lasts 17 weeks to guard against misdiagnosis. Of 32 inmates who have completed the assessment, only 13 were diagnosed with DSPD. "Prisoners undergo psychometric tests to assess their dangerousness and to measure the severity of their personality disorder," Bennett says. "They are also interviewed by a psychiatrist, while care staff record how disturbed and challenging their behaviour is from day to day. We then evaluate whether dangerousness and personality disorder are linked by examining their offending behaviour and how they interact with others. But, basically, you need a long history of offending to meet the criteria." However, the fairness of this process is contested. Pamela Taylor, professor of special hospital psychiatry at Broadmoor, says it risks "feeding the myth that repeat offending equals a personality disorder". Recent research has concluded that six people will need to be locked up under the DPDS programme to prevent one from offending because the terminology is so vague, says Taylor. "In north America, similar risk assessments have been used to extend high-security detention. If this work becomes our main role, we could be colluding in a system of containment that has an aura of making us jailers." However, Bennett says that initial research on the assessment programme found that 70% of prisoners were positive about the regime and 80% were positive about their relationships with staff. "They're not just under observation," he says. "In the first four weeks, prisoners spend half their time doing domestic chores or craftwork and the other half in group therapy or games. In weeks five to 11, the emphasis is on education and they can work towards qualifications. The final weeks focus on creative activities, such as painting or writing their story. This helps us evaluate whether there's scope to improve their behaviour." Treatment is equally contentious. There is still little evidence of what works well in the wider range of personality disorders, let alone at the extreme end of the scale. Although many psychiatrists disagree, Taylor says very serious offenders with personality disorder do respond to treatment - but it usually takes four years to see significant improvement. Psychiatrist Ian Keitch, head of the DSPD unit at Rampton, which is due to open in October next year, acknowledges that patients' behaviour improves largely because of ageing. "As people mature, they tend to express their behaviour in a less physical way," he says. "But that doesn't apply to child sex offenders. It's safer to say that we don't know what works, but that doesn't mean that nothing works." Inmates with DSPD are expected to spend a minimum two years in treatment at Whitemoor. This will mainly involve behaviour therapy, which should help them respond to everyday situations in a problem solving manner rather than emotionally and aggressively. Bennett believes this should enable them to join rehabilitation programmes. He says: "If you put these men into a reoffending reduction course without tackling their disorder, experience shows they just get worse and disrupt the class." The DSPD project's ultimate aim is to re-integrate these offenders into society. However, David James, senior lecturer in psychiatry at the Royal Free and University College medical school, London, says: "Inmates who have completed equivalent schemes in the US and Canada have found no community programmes will have them because of concerns over risk. They become pariahs, even if deemed to have responded well to treatment, so there's a danger of accumulating more and more people in prison and special hospitals." Whitemoor prisoners currently undergoing assessment are very wary of the stigma attached to the diagnosis. "I'm taking a risk coming here," says one sex offender. "They're making us out to be more dangerous than we are. Are we going to have officers saying: 'Oh no, you can't come into the workshop because you might stab someone?'" Crispin Truman, chief executive of charity Revolving Doors, which works with ex-offenders with mental health problems, says there are often great problems finding placements for people diagnosed with personality disorders. "We're told it's not worth taking the risk," he says. "I think the dangerousness tag will make this worse and not just for those diagnosed with DSPD, as terms are often confused by the public and the media." If inmates do not move on to less expensive facilities, the DSPD programme's cost effectiveness is certain to be questioned. The overall budget over the next three years is £126m. The Whitemoor unit cost £230,000 to refurbish, although treatment costs are unavailable. The new wing at Rampton will cost £21m, with treatment costing £180,000 a year for each patient - £30,000 more than in the hospital's current facilities. "On current evidence, such expensive systems and units aren't justified in terms of spending public money," comments Taylor. Many psychiatrists believe the money would be better spent on improving general prison healthcare and on preventive services for children and adolescents at risk of developing personality disorders. Taylor says: "There's evidence from the US that extra schooling can give problem children the social skills to help them break the cycle of aggression and alienation that can contribute to personality disorders." The programme's success is likely to be judged by the public and media on whether it prevents another Michael Stone from killing. A white paper to reform the 1983 Mental Health Act, published two years ago, proposed new compulsory powers to detain people with DSPD, even if they have committed no offence. It has not been acted upon yet, but legislation could come in the Queen's Speech in the autumn. The Home Office estimates that 200 convictions a year could be prevented by detaining and treating people with DSPD. However, there can be no guarantees. As Ian Keitch admits: "I can't say that we're going to reduce the number of homicides by X amount a year." Warning signsThe World Health Organisation defines personality disorders as "deeply ingrained and enduring behaviour patterns, manifesting themselves as inflexible responses to a broad range of personal and social situations". These disorders are associated with ways of thinking, perceiving and responding emotionally that deviate markedly from those generally accepted by society. The white paper, Reforming the Mental Health Act, defines people with a dangerous disorder as: those who show "significant" disorder of personality; who "present a significant risk of causing serious physical or psychological harm from which the victim would find it difficult or impossible to recover, eg, homicide, rape, arson"; and in whom the risk presented appears to be functionally linked to the disorder.