The chief constable of Devon and Cornwall, Maria Wallis, resigned last night after a series of controversies and complaints about her management style.Mrs Wallis, who became Britain's fourth female chief constable when she took over in 2002, was facing a string of inquiries about her running of the force.She had been praised for increasing the number of bobbies on the beat and presiding over an improvement in the crime figures, but in recent weeks pressure steadily increased for her to step down, amid claims that she had lost the support not only of many of her officers but also of the police authority.Announcing Mrs Wallis' request for formal retirement, the chairman of the police authority, David Money, said in recent years there had been damage to the confidence of staff, police officers and the community. "We need to repair this damage and restore confidence. She was under tremendous pressure personally and professionally. I guess ... a combination of those culminated in the decision she made."Mrs Wallis was well regarded at the start of her reign, winning plaudits for shunning a tailored uniform in favour of an off-the-peg number. But in 2004 detectives were involved in a row over pay and resources during a series of murder cases and some withdrew out-of-hours cover to mark their protest.Beat officers were next to fall out with her after she decided to publish their photographs on the force website. Some felt it put them and their families in jeopardy.Last year there was uproar when a pay review could have led to civilian workers losing up to £8,000 from their salaries. The Independent Police Complaints Commission announced this week that it would oversee two inquiries by other forces into the review.Mrs Wallis, 50, said in a statement: "It has been an honour and a privilege to have been the chief constable of Devon and Cornwall Constabulary for the last four years. I am enormously proud of the achievements of our staff, in particular the recent excellent performance. We are now the sixth safest policing area in the country. I have been pleased to lead on the positive improvements we have made in Devon and Cornwall."I have always put the needs of the force first. It is for this reason that I announce with great sadness my immediate retirement. I believe that this is the right thing to do for the people of Devon and Cornwall, the officers and staff."She went on: "You may be aware that the last two months have been very challenging personally. Tragically, my mother died last month and my father subsequently had a major operation."