This week, residents of the Cable Street area of London were horrified to discover that a site proposed for “the only dedicated resource in the East End to women’s history” turned out to be something unexpected: a Jack the Ripper Museum. This small museum, whose precise contents are as yet unknown but whose frontage boasts the cliched silhouette of “Jack” and a corny skull and crossbones, joins the myriad ways – walking tours, bus tours, guidebooks – in which the Jack the Ripper tourism industry has come to define and historicise the East End of London.Those who live in the Cable Street neighbourhood – where no “Jack the Ripper” murder actually occurred – are particularly incensed by this prurient version of East End history expanding into their area. Julian Cole, a filmmaker who lives near the site of the museum, was quoted in the Guardian as saying it felt like a sick joke. “You propose a museum celebrating the achievements of women and then it turns out to be a museum celebrating London’s most notorious murderer of women.” The frontage of this small museum boasts the cliched silhouette of 'Jack' and a corny skull and crossbones Reacting to the onslaught of criticism, the museum’s creators, who include a former Google diversity chief, Mark Palmer-Edgecumbe, say it will be presented from the “perspective of the victims of Jack the Ripper”, but there is little other evidence that this will actually be the case. The displays in the museum are described as “never-before-seen Jack the Ripper pieces which will provide a glimpse into the sinister world of the mysterious murderer, the panic his reign of terror sparked in Victorian London, and a look at those who tried to track him down”.How exactly the perspective of the women who were murdered by Jack will be featured is left unexplored. Will we learn about late-19th-century hop-picking, the casual work Catherine Eddowes had been engaged in just before she was killed? Will we gain insights into life inside the dosshouses of Flower and Dean Street, where Polly Nichols lived? Will we learn about their close ties with neighbours, the “economy of makeshift” in which they participated, and the highly exploitative industries that supplied middle-class households with the luxuries of life but left women such as Annie Chapman in penury? Will we learn about the people they loved and the families they had? Because this is the East End from their perspective. Their experience of being murdered on a night in 1888 is decidedly not “their perspective” on their lives.There is something more troubling at work here, however, than simply another potential erasure of the lives of poor women in favour of the celebration of a mysterious and violent man. In the Evening Standard, Palmer-Edgecumbe insisted of the museum: “It is absolutely not celebrating the crime of Jack the Ripper but looking at why and how the women got in that situation in the first place.” What “situation” does he mean? Is this a reference to prostitution? Quite apart from the fact that some of the victims did not sell sex, prostitution did not kill these women. A violent person did. There is a disturbing suggestion in these words that had the women not “got in that situation” they would not have found themselves victims. It is far too familiar a refrain.No ‘solving’ of the Jack the Ripper case will satisfy our obsession | Julia Laite There is one way, however, in which I find myself defending this idea for a Jack the Ripper museum. It was, according to some of its critics, supposed to celebrate the women of the East End, and its presence on Cable Street detracts from that area’s proud history of anti-fascism, working-class protest and multiculturalism. The Mail Online attacked the museum in part because “it will focus on the gruesome murders of prostitutes rather than the ‘inspirational’ role of the suffragettes”. For someone who finds much in the lives of past sexual labourers to be inspired by – and who knows all too well the violence that many women’s rights campaigners were subjected to – this false dichotomy is disturbing.We do need a resource that draws in tourists and rescues these five women from their current historical fate: frozen in time beneath a Victorian gaslight, or captured in black and white on a coroner’s table, on one tragic night. Who knows? Had the youngest victim, Mary Kelly, lived, she might have joined the ranks of those inspirational suffrage campaigners. There is, in fact, room in the East End for a museum that properly celebrates and commemorates the victims of Jack the Ripper. Perhaps this could be it. But I’m not going to hold my breath.