Mounting concern over the handling of the Damilola Taylor murder investigation led the Metropolitan police and the crown prosecution service to launch separate reviews of the case yesterday.Bowing to pressure that followed the acquittal of four teenagers charged with the 10-year-old schoolboy's murder, the Met commissioner Sir John Stevens announced that an independent oversight panel, chaired by the Bishop of Stepney, John Sentamu, would look at what "lessons may be learned". The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, has also asked the director of public prosecutions, David Calvert Smith, to work with the CPS inspectorate to review the conduct of the agency. The DPP has been asked to make recommendations and consider whether there are any implications for future cases. It is hoped that both reports will be ready by the summer. Earlier the prime minister and the foreign secretary pointedly defended Scotland Yard's professionalism and called for mature reflection on the issues that led to the disintegration of the prosecution case against the boys. Tony Blair said his thoughts were with Damilola's parents, Richard and Gloria Taylor. He described them as "good and decent people, whose sense of grief must be heightened by what has happened. "Of course we must learn the lessons, but we should also realise the police have a difficult job to do and we shouldn't rush to judge, we should consider it carefully so we get it right." Jack Straw, who was home secretary at the time of the murder in November 2000, denied putting undue pressure on the police to find Damilola's killers. "Did I ever say to the Metropolitan police commissioner, you have to rush to make an inquiry here? No, of course not, I wouldn't have dreamt of doing so."Mr Straw said the police and the crown prosecution service had worked "extremely hard and professionally in very difficult circumstances". Their intervention offered some consolation to the Met and the CPS following a grim 24 hours in which attention focused on the frailties of the evidence against the four defendants. The main problems with the case involved a 14-year-old girl, known as Bromley, who claimed to have seen the boys stabbing Damilola. A serial liar and fantasist, her testimony was struck out by the judge when she admitted fabricating parts of her statement to the police. The Met's deputy assistant commissioner, Bill Griffiths, who heads London's murder squads, expressed concern about the way Bromley was "savaged" under cross-examination. "She was hopelessly outgunned by four very senior barristers. They were doing their job, but she spent more time in the witness box with them than she did with us giving her evidence." The murder squad still believes that Bromley did witness a stabbing and that she was not the only person to have done so. Dr Sentamu, who will chair the police review, was an adviser to Sir William Macpherson during his inquiry into the failings of the Met's investigation into the racist stabbing of Stephen Lawrence. Other panel members include Perry Nove, retiring commissioner of City of London police, and David Blakey, inspector of policing.