Alex is standing outside the "peace wall" in Peckham, a woodchip board covering the broken window of Rye Lane's Poundland, which is full of messages of community solidarity. His explanation for why he was at the riots is rather less civil minded."For some people, they just wanted fun innit? … I was standing there seeing police getting ripped [attacked] and that. It was entertainment," he says.The 22-year-old freelance builder and father of one, says he did not take part in the looting and in no way condones the arson attack on Gregg's bakery up the road but adds with a glint that it will boost his income. "I'm working on that [repair] job tomorrow so it's given me a bit of extra work."He cites police harassment and the death of Mark Duggan in Tottenham as reasons for why people flooded on to the streets. But when I ask him why he was there, he struggles to give a decent explanation.In the aftermath of the worst scenes of violence in three decades, commentators and politicians have rushed to give their account of the causes, citing everything from David Cameron's broken and sick society to more leftwing explanations of inequality and deprivation.But it is the sheer brazenness of the young teenagers on the street, the cheering as windows were smashed and clothes and flatscreen TVs pillaged, which has left most people utterly shocked.Jack Levin, professor of sociology and criminology at Northeastern University in Boston, said this question of why people riot should be split into two – the first being the undoubted thrill of getting involved, the "entertainment" factor that Alex spoke about.There is, said Levin, little point trying to ascribe individual responsibility to people involved in these events because they are doing exactly the opposite by attaching themselves to a group. He terms this the process of "de-individuation" where people in crowds abandon their sense of personal identity.He said: "People get together in a group and commit acts of violence that they would never dream of committing individually."De-individuation, can go from the 'sublime to the ridiculous' and from the benign to the dangerous."This is the violent version of the Mexican wave" he said. People are infected with "emotional contagion. "It is a feature of every riot."The Guardian's datablog breakdown of those arrested so far shows that nearly 80% of those in court were aged under 25 and half of those charged have been under 18. Only a very small number were aged over 30. This corresponds with most accounts of rioters being mainly young teenage men. Levin said the age factor greatly exacerbates the "groupthink" mentality."We are talking about young people who want desperately to be accepted by their friends and when they get together in a collective atmosphere they may participate in a riot simply not to let their friends down."The last thing they want is to be rejected. It's like getting the death penalty for a teenager. Buddies, pals, friends mean everything to them."In effect, being a copycat makes them part of a tribe. This explains all those invitations to passersby to join in, not just as looting was happening but also through social media like Facebook, Twitter and BlackBerry's messenger service. In that way, Levin said, the riots were not about a "me, me, me" consumerist grab-what-you-can culture, but the exact opposite. It was about reinforcing a sense of community.But, Levin added, there are the factors before a riot begins, its rapid descent into mob mentality which are just as important to understanding why violence kicks off."[People are] frustrated bruv, frustrated," says Joe as we speak twenty metres from Salford's recently destroyed shopping precinct.He is "ballied-up", covered from head to toe in a hoodie, tracksuit, gloves and a bandana to wrap around his face, and tells me that he was involved in the violence that occurred the night before.Wednesday night, and Salford City is in lock down. In the near distance, police in full riot gear protect shops and surround estates, detaining anyone who might be about to start trouble. Joe's friends nervously keep watch. "Yo, yo, yo, riot van pulling up, riot van pulling up," one suddenly exclaims. "Na, we're sweet man," Joe retorts.He says this is about his generation losing all hope. "People are sayin' 'how are people going to get a job round here tell me now?' … They [employers and the older generation] look at us, yeah and they say 'fuck it, youths mate' that's all they think.""People … that have got a good qualifications and shit like that, they're not getting jobs because of what they look like. It's not on."His friend chips in saying "it's about foreigners". But Joe says: "It's not even 'bout the foreigners bro. It's nothing like that. It's like I say, all the upper generation are judging the lower generation because they think they're fuckin' bastards."I ask him if he has been to the job centre to find work? "I'm at the job centre most days of the week … I'm trying my hardest. I've got CVs and everything bro, I still try, I still do all this shit, I still don't get nothing. I don't get nowhere because of what we look like. You get what I'm sayin'," he says."At the end of the day, they think we're youths and the youth generation today goes mental. [But] we don't go mental, we don't want no trouble. We just want a job. I'm happy to do hard work, decent work.""Fuck all this life," Joe says pointing to the smashed up windows of the shops. "This is a shit game bro." A recent survey of 1,500 people aged 16 to 24 carried out in the weeks before the riots reflected exactly Joe's feeling of age discrimination.In one of the first barometers of attitudes from the generation who have found themselves entering the job market during the economic downturn, the survey overseen by academics at Teesside University, found that 57% said that employers were discriminating against them because of their youth. It also found that almost one in four were depressed about their future.Teesside youth and communities expert Professor Tony Chapman said the results were "very worrying" especially if it meant that young people would now give up on their future. And at the heart of this depression lay a lack of security. Only 49% believed they would have a secure job in five years' time."All the academic research seems to demonstrate that [young people] want a secure living environment, they want to have a good relationship, and if they want to have children, they want the best possible opportunities for their kids and they want secure jobs."It is a far contrast from the celebrity, consumerist lifestyles which so many commentators assume is what the youth of today seek out.But there is a growing realisation among British youth, perhaps more especially among English youth, that none of those very basic desires for a stable job and a secure home are going to be met.And perhaps this is how the frustration has arisen. We are only eight months from when the last set of youth riots exploded in and around the streets of Westminster.Deemed a middle-class revolt at the time – especially after the high-profile jailing of people from well-off backgrounds such as Charlie Gilmour, the son of Pink Floyd guitarist David Gilmour – in fact many of those involved in the disturbances were from lower middle-class backgrounds.In interviews with the young people it was clear that they were shocked and angered that their futures had suddenly been made so uncertain by the hiking of student fees and the abolition of the education maintenance allowance.They also knew that even upon graduation from university or college, they were unlikely to get a job in an economic climate when there are 83 graduates to every job and youth employment is hovering just below the million mark.In fact government austerity measures seen through a generational lens make for an even more depressing read.  Housing benefits are being slashed for the young more than for the old through the mechanism of the share room rate. The house building budget has been slashed by 60% at a time when a housing shortage has hiked up prices, making it impossible to get on the housing ladder. And on top of the scrapping of the Future Jobs fund and the tripling of student fees, local councils have also aimed their cuts on youth services as they are not deemed essential services. Another exacerbating factor is that of fast inflating rents in the private rented sector, where most young people now live because it takes years for them to get their own social housing. Shredded hopes are what drove 27-year-old Trisha to loot three bags of shopping from a supermarket in Hackney on Monday she tells me. "Not even people that's got an education can get a job, much less people that ain't got education. I went to university and I still ain't got a job," she says.  Dressed in jeans and a black bomber jacket, Trisha read child psychology at Middlesex University and was recently made redundant. "I'm still paying my student loan. That's why I looted all I could," she says without remorse.She turns her wrath at those in power. "Cameron", she says, is "doing nothing but talking shit in parliament. They do not know what it is like for us young British people. They don't live in our shoes."They have no idea what it's like. Telling us we're milking benefits off the system. What kind of bullshit is that [for] someone who is on 50 grand per annum?"When she hears that Cameron earns well in excess of that, she can't believe it.The situation is made even more surreal as one of the group we are with just near Mare Street, sells a kitten she is carrying for £60 in cash to a girl from Sweden."This is how we have to hustle on the street," Trisha says. As she takes a drag of a cigarette to calm her nerves The Guardian asks why she looted. She says it was to feed her brothers. But then she also says, "It's not about the shops. It's about retaliating against the government system, making us live poor lives.... we ain't got nothing out here. So if people are going out to demonstrate, we're going to riot mate."Does she think society owes her a living? "I don't think they owe me nothing actually. I think that I just want a decent job to pay my rent and not have to worry about claiming benefits. I don't want to be on fucking benefits."• All interviewees refused to give their names so false names have been used instead