Penal reform charities have called for shorter jail sentences to be scrapped after the government announced plans today for short-term prisoners to serve more of their time under intensive supervision in the community.A leaked memo to the home secretary, Jack Straw, outlined the custody-plus scheme to cut all sentences of a year or less to just three months, with offenders placed under supervision for several months on their release. The Howard League for penal reform and the National Association for the Care and Resettlement of Offenders (Nacro) said such two to three-month prison sentences should be completely replaced by community schemes. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League, said such jail terms would do nothing to break the cycle of offending and were purely about punishment.Ms Crook also criticised proposals that would allow judges to take previous convictions into account when passing sentences. "We don't want to see someone sent to prison for five years because they've sprayed their name on a wall again."A Nacro spokesman added: "How will sending a persistent offender, who has been in and out of jail, to prison again break the cycle of crime?"However, both charities broadly welcomed the plans to provide prisoners with better drug treatment, education and skills training, and help with jobs and housing on release, which are part of the government's new 10-year crime reduction strategy.A spokesman for the Association of Chief Officers of Probation added: "It is very important that short sentenced prisoners are monitored and directed towards the services they need on their release. It is a gap we have long be concerned over." "Intensive community supervision of prolific offenders, often in conjunction with the police, can have a powerful effect - getting offenders to change their behaviour and to take up drug or employment services that are offered at the same time. The challenge is to get prison, police, probation and local specialist services, like drugs, to co-ordinate together within short time scales." "Once in place, the benefit in the overall offending rate would be significant and easily demonstrable."But the Howard League said these extra services must not lead to offenders being sent to prison simply to get an education. "That has happened with young offenders since detention and training orders were introduced last April," she said. "These orders are the prototype for custody-plus, with half the sentence served in prison and the other half in the community. But there is evidence that magistrates thought 'wow these kids haven't been in school for years but if we lock them up they'll get an education'."