Prosecutors have abandoned a legal attempt to make a young man pull his trousers up, it emerged today.Ellis Drummond, 18, was facing an asbo preventing him from "wearing trousers so low beneath the waistline that members of the public are able to see your underwear". He would have been banned from displaying his underpants anywhere in public in the borough of Bedford, and wearing a hood up in any public place in the area.The Crown Prosecution Service said it had intended to include the prohibitions in an asbo for Drummond, from Rushden, after he was convicted of assault, possession of drugs and a public order offence at Bedford magistrates court on 27 April. But before the court hearing, and following discussions with Drummond's defence solicitor, it was decided that the bans were "no longer necessary or proportionate to protect the public from further acts of anti-social behaviour", the CPS said.Also abandoned were proposals to ban Drummond from entering Bedford bus station and the McDonald's restaurant in Bedford High Street. Instead, he was given an asbo banning him from approaching anyone and seeking money or personal items of property belonging to them using threatening words or behaviour, from entering the building or grounds of Bedford College (a further education college), and from using threatening, abusive or intimidatory behaviour or encouraging others to do the same.The CPS said: "It is important to bear in mind that the case for including the prohibitions relating to Mr Drummond's clothes was never argued in court."The prohibitions contained in the notice to the court were drafted by Bedfordshire police and subsequently endorsed by the CPS. These were based on statements provided by witnesses and victims in the criminal proceedings together with his previous convictions."The fashion among young men for wearing their trousers low, showing their underwear has been criticised by Barack Obama. In an interview with MTV in November 2008, the US president said (using the American term for trousers): "Brothers should pull up their pants."In 2007, Delcambre in Louisiana unanimously made wearing saggy trousers an act of indecent exposure punishable by six months' jail or a fine of $500 (£254). Similar local laws exist in towns across America – last year, 18-year-old Julius Hart argued in a Florida court that wearing low-slung jeans was his constitutional right, after he was arrested for having four inches of his boxer shorts on show.Back in Britain, a ban on another young men's fashion statement was imposed in 2008 at Greenwich magistrates court in south-east London, where a gang member was prohibited from wearing a hooded tops. deemed to be used to intimidate others.• This article was amended on 5 May 2010. Due to an error in the editing process, the original described Bedford College as a public school. This has been corrected.