The general practitioner accused of murdering 15 elderly women patients had claimed that one died of pneumonia when he had, in fact, given her a lethal dose of morphine, a court was told yesterday.Harold Shipman, who practiced in Hyde, Greater Manchester, had also incorrectly cited emphysema, a potentially life threatening lung disease, on the death certificate of Joan Melia, who died in June 1998, aged 73. But, John Rutherford, a home office pathologist, told the jury at Preston crown court, that he had found that Mrs Melia had only minimal signs of emphysema and no evidence to suggest she had pneumonia.The court heard that, in Dr Rutherford's opinion, she died from the toxic effects of morphine. The prosecution claims Shipman administered a lethal dose of the drug. Derek Steele, a friend of Mrs Melia, told the jury that he had visited her home in Hyde and discovered her body six hours after she had been to see Dr Shipman at his surgery. Mr Steele was close to tears as he described how Shipman was "very blasé and nonchalant" when he arrived at Mrs Melia's house and stayed five minutes. "He never touched her. I was quite surprised at that. He took one look and said: 'It's too late, the tablets haven't had time to take effect.' His next words were: 'You'll have no trouble with the death certificate, I'll make one out'." Mr Steele said he had persuaded Mrs Melia to visit her GP as she had seemed washed out. At the surgery, said Mr Steele, the doctor told her she was suffering from pleurisy and pneumonia and gave her a prescription for penicillin. Mrs Melia's niece, Jean Pinder, told the court she had spoken to Shipman by phone the day after her aunt's death, as she was so shocked. "He said he was very sorry, but she had been very poorly and died of lobar pneumonia aggravated by emphysema," she said. She had asked why he had not contacted the hospital. "He said she could have died on the way, it was one of those things," she told the court. Shipman, 53, of Mottram, near Hyde, denies 15 charges of murder between 1995 and 1998, and also denies forging the will of one of the 15. The trial resumes on Monday.