Two members of the gang who murdered PC Sharon Beshenevsky during a bungled armed robbery have been charged with stabbing a fellow inmate at a high security prison. Yusuf Abdillh Jamma, 20, and Muzzaker Imtiaz Shah, 25, were jailed for life for the shooting of the officer in Bradford, West Yorkshire, two years ago.They are accused of stabbing an unnamed 22-year-old man from the north-west at Frankland Prison in Durham in March and will appear before Peterlee magistrates on August 30 charged with wounding with intent. Last December, after an 11-week trial, they were told they must serve at least 35 years for PC Beshenevsky's murder before they are eligible for parole. She was shot on her daughter's fourth birthday. Her colleague PC Teresa Milburn was shot in the chest during the robbery at a travel agency in November 2005, but survived. The robbers escaped with little more than £5,000.The injured prisoner, who was serving life for murder, was stabbed in the stomach on March 6.Frankland prison, which houses some of the UK's most dangerous terrorists, has seen a number of high profile attacks in recent months. In July the cell of Hussain Osman, one of the July 21 bomb plotters, was set alight by inmates shortly after he was jailed. Another al-Qaida inmate, Dhiren Barot, spent five days in hospital in Newcastle after he was scalded with a liquid made of boiling water and sugar. He had been jailed for 30 years for plotting to kill thousands of people in the failed London bomb attacks of two years ago. Barot is described as one of al-Qaida's most senior operatives in Europe.Frankland is also home to Omar Kyham, who had planned to blow up the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent using fertiliser bombs. Concerns surrounding security at the prison emerged this month after children found a bag containing a sawn-off shotgun and balaclavas hidden in undergrowth. The jail houses around 730 of the country's most feared criminals.Shah, from Kenton, Greater London, admitted murder but denied firing the fatal shot which killed PC Beshenevsky. Jamma, from Small Heath, Birmingham, was convicted of murder after he told the court he accidentally shot the officer. His brother Mustaf is thought to have been part of the bungled raid and is believed to have flown back to their native Somalia via Heathrow wearing a veil and using his sister's passport. He had been released from jail six months before PC Beshenevsky was killed and had been considered for deportation, but was allowed to stay in the UK as Somalia was considered to be too dangerous.The Prison Service claims attacks on inmates are rare. "However, a prison is a difficult and demanding environment where staff manage a volatile population," it said in a statement.