They chased him through the children's play area, shooting frantically at the fleeing figure. For almost a mile Jonathan Matondo ran through these Sheffield streets with four armed "hunters" on his heels. Just beyond the playground, the 16-year-old found himself cornered. Matondo was shot at the place where graffiti now say: "Peace. Love. Unity."In the district of Burngreave, such well-meaning sentiments are buried beneath one of inner-city Britain's bloodiest gangland feuds. Matondo's murder 18 months ago intensified the spiral of retribution between gangs named after two of the city's postcodes. Five minutes from where he was shot, Spital Hill still marks the front line between the S3 crew of Pitsmoor and the S4s from Burngreave. Police maintain that Sheffield is one of the UK's safest major cities, yet within this small knot of estates perched on a hill north of its gentrified centre a gang culture rules. Ten days ago a drive-by shooting left 1 dead and 3 injured. This month Sheffield crown court heard how an S3 gang member ordered a killing from his prison cell. The feud between the S3 and S4 gangs has led to 3 murders in 18 months. A police dossier chronicles at least 40 occasions on which the two gangs have opened fire on each other.Few visitors here pass unnoticed. Former gang members told last week how carefully sited spotters record vehicle registrations. Details are relayed to other members to check whether new arrivals are undercover police.Gang members reel off the particulars of police officers and which detectives they fear most. "When you get a certain individual here, you know something is going down. They'll know the nooks and crannies, who the people are." The police are equally aware. "We know who they are. We are waiting and watching," said Chief Superintendent Paul Broadbent.Matondo's death 18 months ago served notice to Broadbent that the use of guns among teenagers that has plagued cities such as Manchester had arrived in South Yorkshire. "If you want firearms, you can get them. Everyone has access to one if they want," said Jahshanti Wilson, 21, a former gang member and "Burngreave boy". Police believe weapons are smuggled across the Pennines along the A57 from Manchester. Most are Russian-made Baikals, though evidence indicates that a number of reactivated handguns have also arrived from the south. Broadbent, whose officers recovered 15 firearms in Sheffield last year, is under no illusions. "If you really want a firearm, then you can get hold of one ... What they [the postcode gangs] are really interested in is pointing the gun. The problem is that when they point it at someone they feel duty bound to take it further. That has happened on a number of occasions."Police intelligence indicates that firearms in Burngreave are passed between gang members. Trees in patches of parkland are riddled with bullet holes, wooden limbs shattered by the apprentice gunmen who use them for target practice. Wilson estimates that, of 350 young people in the S3 postcode, 30 might carry knives, with a similar number having access to firearms. Broadbent believes the city's hardcore gang membership is as small as 15 to 40, which is tiny compared to the Doddington and Gooch gangs that have dominated Manchester's underworld for decades and who, between them, are linked to 20 murders.Wilson, who ran with the gangs as a 13-year-old, recalls that, when a television celebrity tried to broadcast a live link from the "rec" where Matondo was murdered, he had to leave after hooded youths began circling the crew. "Man, he was outta there quick," smiled Wilson, who now runs Streetworx, a project that engages with potential gang recruits.Outside the Streetworx offices, a graffiti board pays tribute to Venomous, the street name of Matondo. There are also testimonials to Brett Blake, a 23-year-old fatally stabbed in a city nightclub last year, and to Tarek Chaiboub, nicknamed GT (for Global Threat), who was shot 12 months ago. Most gang members tend to congregate outside the five barber shops that form the so-called front line. "It's famous for the barbers, we even get lads from Chesterfield coming over. But you get big queues outside, youths from different places mixing, and there can be clashes," said Wilson.One of the most popular barber's, Frenchie's, is still closed a year after Chaiboub was shot on its doorstep with a sawn-off shotgun. "There was a pool of clotted blood that big," said Wilson, making a circle the size of a bus wheel with his arms. He shakes his head. Matondo was a close friend. Each barber's has a different clientele: some are visited by local "Yardies"; others are frequented by Pakistanis or Somalis or Kurds. "Each culture within the gangs have their different ways of doing business. Some hold grievances for years, but with Kurds, say, there are a couple of stabbings and it all gets settled quick," said one teenager, who declined to be named.Police say Sheffield's gang culture also tends to differ from other similar-sized cities, in that S3 and S4 are not embroiled in a "turf war" for drugs territory. "Often violence stems from a tedious, mindless reason, such as disrespect," said Broadbent. While major criminal figures from Manchester and Birmingham have been tracked visiting Sheffield, rarely do the gangs of Burnsgreave venture beyond their patch. Police intelligence reveals a chaotic gang hierarchy, with individuals often flitting between gangs, before a bout of extreme violence erupts. "A lot of S3 and S4 chill together. Most of the time it's fine," said Wilson.Already this year South Yorkshire police have removed 5 young teenagers from their families to prevent them slipping into criminal lifestyles. "They were heading for a life where they would be either kill or be killed. Some have already thanked us for saving their lives," said Broadbent.• This article was amended on Wednesday 29 July 2009. In the article above we said that police believe weapons are smuggled across the Pennines along the A50 from Manchester but should be the A57. This has been changed.