That is one of the ironies, Michael says. "My dad was allowed to stay in Brazil only when he found out Mum was pregnant. Till then, they were going to deport him." And the only reason that Michael has been allowed to stay in Britain now is because, after decades apart, his mother and father married two years ago in a prison ceremony, which allowed Michael to have a British passport.I ask them if he and his father have always been close. They both smile. "He raised me singlehandedly, and he never left me at home to go out drinking. He always took me with him," Michael says. "My mum left for Europe when I was 11 months old. She never really forgave Dad for lying about his name. The police raided our house and that's when she found out who he was - until then she thought she had been living with Mike Haynes." (Everyone suffered for Biggs's deceit - his family, his friends, and not least himself. In 1971, he read that his and Charmian's son Nicholas had been killed in a car crash. He was heartbroken, but couldn't discuss it with anybody because no one knew he was Ronnie Biggs.)The police raid happened when Raimunda was pregnant. Biggs agreed to give himself up and sell his story to the Express. He was due to receive £35,000 for it - money that was to be split between Charmian and Raimunda. But when the Express arrived, they also brought along Detective Superintendent Jack Slipper, head of Scotland Yard's flying squad, to arrest him. Biggs wasn't happy - he'd wanted to give himself up on his terms. He was placed in a prison overnight while awaiting extradition to the UK, and it was in prison that he was informed that he would be able to stay if he had a Brazilian child. So, in May 1974, he was released on conditional liberty. He could live in Rio, but only as a semi-citizen - he was curfewed after 10pm every night, and not allowed officially to work, or marry in Brazil. The love between Biggs and Charmian had always been operatic. Hearing of his arrest, she flew out to Brazil to help him. When she discovered that Raimunda was pregnant, she ripped up Raimunda's wardrobe in fury before reluctantly agreeing to a divorce in the hope that it might help Biggs remain in Brazil. Although Charmian and their two surviving children still live in Australia, the family have remained close. One of Biggs's most treasured snaps is of his two families celebrating a reunion together. The guard tells us that our visit is over. "I love you, Dad," Michael says. Ronnie silently clasps his heart from behind the glass. Michael is in tears as we walk away from the prison. "He's the only thing that keeps me going. I almost lost my wife over this, man. You know, I'm torn between my family and my father. But she understands. She knows if I left him, I would be so morose, I wouldn't be worth living with." He also left his career behind in Brazil - he had been a respected musician who ran his own studio. As we approach the station, he makes a phone call to a friend. Good friends, he says, have been his salvation. His friend answers. "Tye, have you got work for me, please, man? I need a shift. Yeah? That's great." Things are looking up. Through the night he will do a shift loading and unloading vegetables. With a bit of luck, it should bring him 40 quid. A couple of weeks later we meet up again outside a burger bar at London Bridge station, on our way to Belmarsh. Michael looks drawn and edgy. His trip to Brazil has been delayed, but he's finally leaving tomorrow and has been up all night working and getting himself ready. All he needs to do now is get a present for his daughter, Ingrid, who is now three. "She'll go mad, you know, when she sees me," he says. "I'll just give her a little doll, but she'll receive it like it's the greatest gift on earth." When Biggs returned to Britain two years ago, he was put in Belmarsh, a category A prison. However, the prison service ruled that he represented little risk and should be classified as a category C prisoner. Yet he is still in Belmarsh, widely regarded as the toughest jail in the country. Why? The prison service told Biggs it was because the medical wing at Belmarsh provides the best medical aid. This is nonsense, Michael says. "If they are so interested in his health, why have they allowed him to contract scabies? Why do they leave his stomach tube uncleaned till his belly goes septic?" The prison service would give the Guardian no explanation as to why Biggs was currently receiving neither speech nor physiotherapy, nor why he was still in a category A prison. "We cannot discuss individual prisoners," a spokesman said. Jack Slipper, formerly of the flying squad, now in his 80s, says he was astonished that Biggs was sent to Belmarsh. "I saw him get off the plane at Northolt aerodrome and unless he's a John Gielgud, he looked as if he was finished." Did he think Biggs should die in prison? "No. I hope they will give him the chance to be with his son for the last few months of his life. You know, I had a certain amount of respect for Biggs because he brought up Mike by himself. I had time to sit down with him, have a few beers with him. He was quite a likable chap, a man's man, didn't talk about shopping or anything like that. He loved to say he'd done this and he'd done that, but take it from me, I had his file out for years and it surprised me because he'd hardly done anything. He was never a gangster, he was a cheap thief. I tell you what he was, he was a good tea boy because that's basically what he did - he cleaned up after them." Last year Michael Biggs wrote an open letter to the Home Secretary, David Blunkett: "I find it completely inconsistent with your proposed prison reforms to keep my father incarcerated. You state that public protection is your priority, so why are you keeping my father locked up? If released, do you believe that he would reoffend? That he would be a menace and a danger to the public? I understand that it costs the taxpayer in excess of £2,000 per week to hold my father in top-security Belmarsh and, as you yourself have stated, prison is an expensive way of denying people liberty. Surely it would make more sense to release him under licence into my care. This would place less of a strain on the public purse and free up space in your overcrowded prisons." There was no response from Blunkett. Has Michael ever considered leaving his father here and returning to his wife and Ingrid? "No," he answers instantly. "He never deserted me, and I'm not going to desert him." He says he and his father were a team from the word go. While the British newspapers loved to report on the lavish lifestyle Biggs was enjoying, the truth was very different for most of the time. He arrived in Brazil with $200. For the first few years of Michael's life, Biggs survived by selling T-shirts and autographs, posing for newspapers and putting on barbecues at £40 a go for tourists who wanted to tell their mates they came to Rio and danced the night away with Ronnie Biggs. "Remember, you've got a young kid in the house, a baby, one and a half years old, you haven't got enough to feed him for the next week, and a journalist knocks on the door and says I'll give you £1,000 if you raise a glass and say, 'Here's looking up the Queen's skirt' - what are you going to do? You're going to take it, and that's what he did. And I'm proud of him for what he did because he was making sure he provided for me." It was the media that created the Ronnie Biggs image, says Michael, but boy, did his dad know how to play up to it. He was a good host and old train robber friends, police officers, celebrities, they all came out to see him. In the late 1970s, the Sex Pistols came out to Rio and Biggs wrote the lyrics for No One Is Innocent ("Ronnie Biggs was doing time until he done a bunk, Now he says he's seen the light and he sold his soul to punk"). It became a big hit. "What pisses the government off is that my father was always seen as a lovable rogue." What about his criminal record since the train robbery? Michael looks at me, astonished. "Criminal record? He's never broken the law ever since. When he escaped, he escaped with a mate of his, Eric Flower, and he said to Eric, 'There's only one way to stay out, keep clean. Do not fuck around. If we do anything, we're back inside.' Eric got back into business, and was slung back inside." The 80s began badly for Biggs: three mercenaries, former British soldiers, kidnapped him and carried him off to Barbados, from where they planned to bring him back to the UK. It was up to Michael, again, to save him. He was seven years old when he made his public bow, pleading on television for the return of his father. The story goes that the wives of Brazilian ministers were so moved when they saw this distraught boy that they insisted their powerful husbands ensure Biggs's safe return to Rio. Eventually the Barbados courts turned down Britain's application for extradition and Biggs was allowed back to Brazil. Meanwhile, on his numerous TV appearances, Michael's star potential was spotted and he was invited to join a band, the Magic Balloon Gang. They were hugely successful, selling 12m records and playing in front of 200,000 at the Maracana stadium. Michael became even more famous than his renegade father. Michael, now 29, recalls how, by the time he was barely in his teens, he and his dad would party the night away. At last, thanks to his son, Biggs could afford to buy a house. "They were great days," Michael says. "We were best mates and people always said it's amazing, how you can be such good friends with your dad? But we were." Success didn't last long. By the 90s they had spent their money and were again reliant on the Ronnie Biggs memorabilia industry. Michael says he had few regrets. "I've had everything in my life. I've had so much money, I've had the limos and the drugs and the hookers, and I don't care if I have no money so long as I've got my family - my dad, my wife, my kid." Our train comes to a stop and a delay is announced due to a train breakdown at Woolwich. "Could you imagine if they were trying to rob a train now, they'd have no chance," Michael says. "No matter how well they planned it, the train would be late." We finally reach the prison. "Just watch," he says, "when we go into the visiting room there will be a special watch with cameras on us, and a couple of officers next to us. It's pathetic - as if he's going to run away again. As if he could run away." Why does he think they are being so tough on his father? "If they gave him a fair sentence, say 10 to 12 years, he could soon be eligible for parole, and the government is afraid of the moralists saying this is wrong, we can't let people get away with this, we're sending the wrong message to the public. But I think they're sending the wrong message to the public anyway. What they are saying is that you can maim, kill, rape, molest children and you get away with doing less time. It shows clearly that property is more valued than life in Great Britain at the moment." In fact, there was nothing proportionate about the sentences when they were handed out back in the early 60s. The train robbery was carried out in August 1963, barely two months after the Profumo scandal - involving a government minister, sex and an attaché at the Soviet embassy. The British establishment was rocking and, in a different way, the train robbery was a further embarrassment. What was so much money doing on a train in mail bags in the first place? How was it so easily robbed? Why had the police failed to capture four of the gang? And, perhaps worst of all, how had the robbery come to be regarded by so many people as some kind of heroic enterprise? When the gang came to trial, the establishment was determined to show that crime didn't pay. It has often been suggested that this is why they received such draconian sentences. But when the criminal cases review commission re-examined the case in March 2002, it ruled that there was nothing unfair about the sentence and that Biggs's age and health were irrelevant to an appeal. The only issue it could take into account was the correctness of the original trial judge's decision in light of the information in front of him, and on that basis the CCRC ruled that there were no grounds to send the case back to the appeal court. At the prison, we spray ourselves lavishly with deodorant before going in front of the sniffer dogs. Biggs is waiting for us at a table near the end of the big, bare visiting room. Michael asks his father how he is, and whether they are keeping the tube clean. He lifts his top. It's a horrible sight. There is a yellow crust around the tube that goes into his stomach. "THEY STOPPED THE COKE." Until recently Biggs had been cleaning his tube with Coca-Cola, but the dietician discontinued it. He looks at Michael, taps him on the arm. "WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO RIO?" "I'm supposed to be going tomorrow, but I don't want to leave you." "YOU'VE GOT TO GO, YOU'RE INGRID'S DAD." "But you're my dad." A toddler walks past us. Biggs sticks out a huge arm, rolls him over and starts tickling him. He falls on his back like an ecstatic pup. Both faces crease up in delight. In January last year, Biggs claimed he was beaten by one of the officers in an unprovoked assault. He says that there were witnesses, but they have since been moved to other prisons. "GOOD NEWS," he taps. "ONE OF THE GUYS WHO WITNESSED THE ATTACK HAS BEEN RELEASED AND MAY BE PREPARED TO GIVE EVIDENCE." Biggs takes out a handkerchief to tidy up his dribbles, then a second one. "IT'S FOR BLITZ," he taps. Blitz is their dog in Brazil. Biggs sticks it under his armpits and wipes it in his crotch. "I SLEPT ON IT LAST NIGHT. GIVE IT TO BLITZ." "Jesus, man!" Michael says. "He'll go mad when he smells this. He'll go absolutely bonkers." Four months after this visit, I receive a letter from Ronnie Biggs. His tone is so different from normal. The letter has been rewritten by a friend because Biggs's motor skills are now so poor that his version was illegible. He gives me more detail of the attack he'd mentioned during our visit - how he was beaten up by the officer when he tried to visit a wheelchair-bound friend, Peter Furness, on another ward. An internal inquiry into the attack concluded that no officer was to blame. "Excuse me for not writing sooner. I have no excuse other than being unhappy. The round-the-clock bang-up is getting me down. This is not the kind of letter I like to write. I hope to see you real soon. Your friend, Ronnie Biggs." It's now October. I've not seen Biggs for a few months. There has been the odd nugget of good news for him - he has a television in his room, his dribbling has improved. Michael has found himself a proper job, which may enable him to get a visa for Veronica, his wife, and Ingrid. As we walk to Belmarsh, Michael talks of his plans. Hopefully, he says, his family should be over here by the end of the year. Veronica is doing a postgraduate degree in psychology. With any luck, he says, she should get a good job, and that would allow him to return to music. Actually, he says, he's still managed to keep a hand in while he's been here - he plays guitar on the new So Solid Crew record. I ask Michael when he first heard about the Great Train Robbery. "I was about four. Dad was on one of Her Majesty's ships, and was talking about the robbery with his friends. And I got my wires crossed and thought he had stolen a ship. When I was a kid I thought he was the great ship robber." We splash on the deodorant and the sniffer dogs give us the all-clear. Biggs looks terrible. His face is sunken and shapeless. His neck is drooping, wattle-like. His hair needs cutting. He gives us both a hug. Michael polishes his false teeth for him and pops them in. Biggs winces, then he's smiling again. His face regains its shape. Now he seems animated, chatty. I ask him what he misses most about Brazil. "EVERYTHING," he taps. If he could have his time over again, would he have stayed there? "NO. IF I HAD STAYED THERE I THINK I WOULD BE DEAD BY NOW." Why? He rubs his fingers together. No money for medical treatment. "That's not true," Michael says, "you were going to a clinic every week and it was free." We start talking about food and the chicken soup they used to eat when times were hard. "IT TASTED GOOD. I WAS A GOOD COOK," Biggs taps. "CHANGE THE SUBJECT." He can't taste anything these days, and he misses his food. "DRUGS," he says. "THE TIMES WE HAD. I BECAME A POTHEAD IN THE SEVENTIES. WONDERFUL." He cracks his fingers with delight, but they make no noise. Yes, Michael says, he'd been dead straight all these years, and suddenly in his 40s, he became a fully fledged hippie. "Dad, I've got good news for you. You're a grandfather again! Farley has just had a baby boy." Biggs again cracks his fingers, shakes hands with Michael, takes out two imaginary cigars from his breast pocket and offers one to his son by way of celebration. He says that the television has made life much more tolerable. What has he been watching? "THE WEAKEST LINK.""Yeah, he loves it," Michael says. "He thinks Anne Robinson is a complete bitch."The former police chief Sir Robert Mark wrote in his memoirs that Biggs had "added a rare and welcome touch of humour to the history of crime" and that he was the most memorable figure to undergo banishment since Henry IV in 1398. I ask Biggs why he thinks so many people like him despite his past. "IT'S MY CHARM." And he grins.It's funny, I say, so many people think you received such a long sentence because you coshed Jack Mills and he died from the injuries. "MISCONCEPTION," he says. " THE GUY WHO DID IT WAS ONE OF THE TWO WHO WERE NEVER CAUGHT."Michael asks him how he's coping on his wing - a medical wing, but with regular cells. "EVERYONE ON MY WING IS RADIO RENTAL.""Radio rental?" Michael says, confused."MENTAL," Biggs taps.Biggs has good news for his son. "I'VE BEEN TOLD THEY'RE GOING TO MOVE ME TO A CAT C PRISON.""That's good, but they've said it before," Michael says.Although Biggs has not been granted legal aid, his barrister, Nigel Sangster, has worked for nothing for him in his battle to get his sentence reviewed. But Michael has bad news for his father. "Dad, the divisional court has turned us down. They won't send the case back to the appeal court." Biggs listens expressionless. He has reached a dead end as far as the British justice system goes. Even now Michael is determined to give it the best possible spin. Amazingly, he manages, "But that's great, Dad, because it means we've exhausted all the avenues in Britain and we can take your case to Europe. And once we're at the European court, I just know they'll see sense and let you out." · As we went to press, Biggs's lawyers were petitioning the European court of human rights, arguing that the treatment of Ronnie Biggs breaches Article 3 of the European convention on human rights, which states that no one should be subject to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. My beloved dad, the train robber, part I