The first Paul Taylor knew of it was when he saw tyre tracks in one of his fields behind a local tennis club, and then spotted sheep droppings on the wrong side of his fence. After dark and without anyone noticing, 100 ewes and lambs had been taken from his farm at Knutsford, Cheshire.Taylor's flock had been particularly distinguished, winning prizes at the Cheshire show for putting on fat as lambs. "They even stole my wife, Carly's, favourite sheep which had a dark patch on it, along with its lamb, which had a spot on it," he said of last week's raid. "All my years of hard work have been taken away."Thirty-five miles to the north, days earlier, thieves in Ramsbottom, Lancashire, staged an even more audacious raid, when 271 sheep were stolen overnight without anyone hearing a bleat. Now police are concerned that a hefty rise in meat prices has turned crime syndicates' attention to the countryside, while the recession is encouraging an ask-no-questions mentality among shoppers eager for bargains.The potential implications of a sharp rise in rustling extend beyond the farmers who fall victim, according to food and health agencies. Having been plunged in toxic sheep dip to rid them of skin conditions and parasites, Taylor's flock cannot legally enter the food chain for 70 days, but police across the country are encountering a shadowy food-processing market which is not bothered with such regulations.Police sergeant Ben Hodgkinson, in charge of the Ramsbottom case for Lancashire police, has no doubt trained animal husbandry is involved. Although farmer William Holden reckons his sheep would follow anyone who seemed to be offering them food, the sergeant said: "The offenders must have been well-prepared, and it's likely that they knew how to handle sheep.""It beggars belief," said Holden, of Oswaldtwistle in Lancashire, whose flock was pastured behind the Horse and Jockey pub near Ramsbottom when the rustlers struck. Checking out three lambs found nearby ‑ which proved to be a neighbour's strays ‑ he said: "There's no limit to what these criminals are now prepared to do."Crime against farmers has risen, following a dip two years ago, and covers everything from siphoning fuel from combine harvesters to stealing bees. Tim Price of NFU Mutual insurance has been involved with a claim involving 18 hives and 800,000 bees worth £6,000 missing from a farm in rural Shropshire."Crime adjusts to whatever is currently valuable," he says. "Farmers' quad bikes, for instance, are a new target, and there's evidence that good police work against thieves stealing luxury cars has driven them to target tractors instead. We're talking about machines worth £100,000 in some cases, which is every bit as tempting as a Ferrari. There's a big market for them overseas and unlike Ferraris, they're often left outside with pretty basic protection. So many are exported legitimately, that the stolen ones can be slotted in without standing out."Rustling of large animals remains a small part of farmers' losses, but some believe that drives for better security, including forensic marking and GPS trackers on valuable vehicles may be encouraging a shift to rustling. The Texel sheep from Ramsbottom are worth up to £90 each at open auction, but the National Farmers' Union believes the main incentive is the price rise in meat, with sheep carcasses rising from £2.70 per kilogram last year to £4.80.In the last six months, rustlers brazenly outwitted royal security, loading 19 Red Poll cattle worth £15,000 on to a lorry at a yard on the Sandringham estate in Norfolk. Other cases reported to NFU Mutual include £10,000 worth of sheep taken at Hay-on-Wye, 60 stolen from a field near Norwich and 60 Charolais lambs trucked from pasture at Bridgnorth in Shropshire.Five hundred piglets were taken from a farm near Tamworth in south Staffordshire by thieves targeting very young stock ‑ none was over five weeks old. One case at Trowbridge in Wiltshire even involved the rustling of ducks; a man has been arrested and charged.Farmers and food and health agencies are determined to get more people in court, both by undercover work using contacts in the meat and livestock industry, and simply by recruiting more eyes and ears. Rachael Gillbanks, of the National Farmers' Union, whose region covers the walking country of Yorkshire and the north Pennines, said ramblers could help report livestock movement or suspicious trailers and trucks.The NFU is seeing a revival of interest in Farmwatch, the industry's version of Neighbourhood Watch, which "was very popular and successful but then seemed to sort-of fizzle out", Gillbanks said. The rise in crime has prompted a revival of teamwork between police and farmers in Teesdale, County Durham, which pioneered Farmwatch 21 years ago.Now almost in their 70s, Peter and Gladys Stubbs, who farm poultry near Barnard Castle, still go out on patrol every week in their Land Rover, scouring the beautiful valley for anything untoward. Unlike in their earliest days, when they were alone, they share the work with 80 other farmers and an enthusiastic local police team.The thousands of sheep and other livestock which roam the grand landscape maymight seem easy pickings, but the farmers ‑ plus gamekeepers, water bailiffs and countryside "regulars" ‑ are on their guard. Local knowledge, believe the farmers, has potential to turn the tide against the rustlers, while trading standards and animal health investigators hunt the unlicensed abattoirs and export firms. "There was a night when we were out until 5am," said Peter Stubbs. "We knew that a gang had gone into Cumbria and would have to come back across the Tees. On their return, we had every bridge covered, and that was a good feeling."Heading for the hillsThe theft of 271 sheep taken from a farm in Ramsbottom, Lancashire, is just the biggest of a number of sheep rustling incidents to have taken place around the country this year alone.• Cumbrian police said hundreds of sheep had been taken from 15 farms across the area so far this year. Around 30 sheep were taken in one night raid. Farmer Peter Bousfield lost eight Texel ewes in January. In January £6,000-worth of pregnant ewes disappeared overnight from Black Bull farm in South Lakeland – worth £120 each and due to lamb in March.• Nearly 200 sheep were stolen from a field in Mold, north Wales, in May, in one of the region's largest sheep rustling incidents.• In Scotland sheep rustling incidents include 200 sheep stolen from Redheugh farm in Cockburnspath, Lothian and Borders, over several months. Hollybush farm in Galashiels lost 16 ewes and 32 lambs over two days in April. Westruther Mains farm lost seven ewes and 14 lambs overnight in the same month.• Sheep are not the only target. Five hundred piglets were taken from a farm near Tamworth, south Staffordshire and 19 Red Poll cattle, worth £15,000, were loaded on to a lorry on the Sandringham estate in Norfolk.