Recorded crime in England and Wales fell by just 0.2% in the 12 months to March 2000, it was revealed yesterday in the last set of official figures to be published before an expected May general election.Although the continuing fall in general crime levels was marred by the well-trailed 21% rise in robberies (including muggings) the overall reduction in crime enabled the home secretary, Jack Straw, to claim that Labour would go into the campaign boasting that overall crime had fallen by 7% since Labour came to power in 1997. That assertion is backed up by the more authoritative British Crime Survey which asks people about their experience as victims. It estimates that overall crime fell by about 10% between 1997 and the end of 1999.But the 8% rise in violent crime continues to prove a political embarrassment to the government's record on law and order. The latest police crime figures show that although violent crime continues to make up only 13% of all offences it is this type of crime that most alarms the public. Violence against the person - the largest category covered by violent crime - which includes a wide range of attacks, from minor assault to murder, rose by 7% to 589,000 offences. The vast majority of these , around 557,000, were less seriousattacks such as harassment and common assault. The most alarming trend is the 21% increase in robberies, mainly street muggings, which rose to 90,000 offences. Ministers put this down partly to an increase in mobile phone thefts from teenagers by other teenagers. Over the past 10 years the number of robberies, especially muggings, has more than doubled. Leading criminologists said yesterday that the rise in assault figures might be the result of changes in police recording practices and the increased willingness of victims of domestic violence and racial attacks to report the offences. But they believe the rise in robberies does reflect a changing trend on the streets. While recognising that the 8% rise in violent crime was the ninth increase in 10 years, the Home Office's director of research and statistics, Paul Wiles, said the rate of increase was now slowing down. "Over the last year the quarterly increases were 16%, 10%, 5% and 2%, compared to the same quarters a year earlier," he said. The number of recorded sex crimes actually fell - for the first time in five years - by 0.4% and the number of peo ple arrested for drug offences, mostly possession, dropped by 11% to 115,000, partly as a result of a more targeted use of stop and search tactics by the police in the past 18 months. Police recorded some 24,000 offences of racially aggravated crime, half of which involved incidents described as harassment. The Home Office says it is too early to establish a trend for this new category of crime introduced in 1998. The figures confirm that the big anti-crime successes of recent years have been the reduction in offences such as burglary and car crime. Recorded burglaries fell, for the seventh year running, by 8% to just under 863,000 break--ins with a bigger fall in domestic (down 10%) than commercial (down 5%) burglaries. Car crime, which includes thefts of vehicles as well as thefts of items from cars, was down a further 7% to its lowest level since 1988. However, the figures provided more than enough ammunition for the shadow home secretary, Ann Widdecombe, to claim they were a "severe indictment" of the government's law and order policies. "This is the government that said it was going to be 'tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime', but the only people it has been tough on are the crimefighters," she said. "What have they achieved, apart from having fewer policemen on the streets, fewer penalties and more people out of prison early? "The Conservative party left a fall in crime of 16% and Labour simply haven't maintained progress because we're now being invited to rejoice over an overall fall of 0.2%." Tony Blair, on a tour of Scotland Yard's recruiting centre, said: "We welcome very much the fact that overall crime is falling and car crime and burglaries are down. That's no consolation if you are a victim but that's got to be a very good trend." Mr Straw said the figures for violent crime were a "cause for concern", adding: "It looks as though the trend is now declining but it's still unacceptable." Many of the lessons learned from targeting burglary and car crime would be used to tackle violent crime. "Overall crime in England and Wales has fallen over recent years and is continuing to fall. But it is still far too high, and we must continue to work together to bring it down further." He said that the new crime bill to be published on Friday would go further in giving the police the power to issue fixed penalty fines to drunken yobs, and published figures showing that police training colleges now had 5,268 new recruits, up from 3,030 a year ago. Mr Straw denied a direct link between the number of police on the beat and levels of violent crime. "If there was a direct relationship the figures would show a direct link between officer numbers and shifts in crime in particular forces and there has not been."