I doubt that Sir Ian Blair, commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, would recognise for a second Max Hastings' version of a world where the police are free from all accountability and unfettered by the need to explain themselves to government or the public (The police can't be exempted from disciplines we all face, September 10). Hastings' assertion that there has been no change in structures, management or governance regimes is simply not borne out by the facts.The commissioner reports in person, in public and at length, to the open meetings of the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA), which I chair, every month. Ask him if that is a comfortable or superficial experience. He'll tell you it is no such thing. Between times, our performance and planning committee carries out searching and detailed scrutiny of police performance, in public again - which is just as rigorous as the US's CompStat crime statistics system, to which Hastings referred. I invite Hastings to attend one of these meetings before he concludes there is no accountability. On top of these public sessions there are regular discussions with the mayor and the home secretary.It was the authority that insisted that all the London borough performance figures should be available, ward by ward, in real time, on the website. These figures inform local discussion between councils, partners and the police, for scrutiny and partnership work.And the same rigorous approach to scrutiny and to setting the tone for policing can be seen in the way in which the Met, partly at the behest of the MPA, is embracing neighbourhood policing and citizen focus, supported by the mayor's precept and investment from the government. Citizen focus may not be an elegant phrase, but the concept is exactly that of responsiveness and sensitivity to the impact of police actions that Hastings rightly seeks.The MPA has teeth and we have used them to bite - insisting that proper financial management delivers an efficient use of resources, waking up the police to their need to account for every penny of taxpayers' money, taking on board government guidance about achieving efficiencies. We have saved £130m that way, with a further £150m identified for the next three years through the exhaustive service review which we insisted on. So the governance is there, it is vigorous, transparent and continuing.But the fundamental misconception in Hastings' article is that the police service is not up for modernisation. Maintaining the status quo is not an option. I have not met a single senior officer who does not welcome the concept of continuous improvement, which can be openly demonstrated to the public. Last week's announcement on the effective use of police officers and staff recognised that support officers in their many guises are as important as officers in providing an across-the-board service.In terms of rules governing operational and conduct issues for officers we have reached a milestone - we need now to ask whether the framework within which we are working is sufficiently clear.Max Hastings should not think there is no debate going on about accountability; the debate is alive and kicking.· Len Duvall is chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority enquiries@mpa.gov.ukThe Response column offers those who have been written about in the Guardian an opportunity to reply.If you wish to respond, at greater length than in a letter, to an article in which you have featured either directly or indirectly, please email response@theguardian.com or write to Response, The Guardian, 119 Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER.We cannot guarantee to publish all responses, and we reserve the right to edit pieces for both length and content.