Britain's most senior police officers appear to have shot themselves in the foot by advocating a policy that the identities of arrested suspects should remain confidential.The Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) have called for anonymity to be maintained when people are arrested in order to protect those who later turn out to be innocent from reputational damage.But Lancashire constabulary, responsible for bringing the TV presenter Stuart Hall to justice, said just the opposite. Publicity after Hall's arrest was a vital tool in encouraging many more of his victims to come forward. In fact, the great majority of the charges that Hall admitted were the result of women contacting the police following his arrest.Several national newspapers, following on from yesterday's statement by the Society of Editors, have taken the opportunity of the Hall case to point to the danger of anonymity for suspects.The opening sentence of The Times's splash is unequivocal: "Stuart Hall might never have been brought to justice under new police guidelines to give suspects anonymity."A Daily Telegraph news story says that Hall's lawyers tried to keep his identity secure by quoting the Leveson report. It states that in the aftermath of Hall being charged, his solicitor said: "It is a matter of concern that in the week following the publication of the Leveson report, there appears to have been systematic leaks to the media which have given a misleading impression of what this case is about."The story goes on to point out that Lord Justice Leveson, in company with two other judges - Lord Justice Treacy and Mr Justice Tugendhat - have advocated anonymity for people when they arrested.And the Telegraph also carries a leading article, headlined "The right to know", which argues that it is "a fundamental democratic right for the public to know who the police have in custody and why."The paper calls the ACPO decision "a noble idea" but one that is "extraordinarily short-sighted." Citing the Hall case, the Telegraph says:"Thanks to press publicity… the true extent of his crimes was revealed. After the case made headlines, 10 more women came forward with allegations of assault. None of them knew each other, and almost two decades separated the first and last attacks: unless his identity had been shared with the public, they would never have found out that they were not Hall's only victim. Indeed, one woman who came forward said that she did so only because she heard about his arrest while listening to the radio… Anonymity, by contrast, can become a means to protect the guilty, or shield powerful institutions from criticism. It can also be taken to extremes, as when Warwickshire police recently refused even to name a former officer who has been charged with theft. Alongside the Hall case, this episode illustrates the compelling and continued need for transparency."The Warwickshire case, revealed yesterday by the Daily Mail, involved the arrest of one of its own police officers. Even after the man had been charged, his name was not released until the Crown Prosecution Service identified him, forcing the police force to backtrack.As the Mail pointed out, the refusal to name a person who has been charged "goes a significant step further in wrapping the judicial system in a cloak of secrecy."In a follow-up article today, the paper reports that 14 out of 43 forces "are keeping secret the names of suspects even after they have been charged."It names the forces that have introduced "arbitrary bans" as those that serve the following areas: Cambridgeshire, Cleveland, Derbyshire, Dorset, Dyfed-Powys, Essex, Gwent, Humberside, Northamptonshire, North Wales, South Yorkshire, Staffordshire, West Mercia and West Yorkshire.(This will come as no surprise to regional and local papers in those areas, who have been struggling for years against unhelpful police bureaucracies).The Mail devotes today's leading article, "Charging headlong towards a secret state", to the lessons of both the Warwickshire and Hall cases. It says:"Make no mistake: the risks to justice and liberty of arresting and charging suspects in secret could not be more serious.If the public are not allowed to know an innocent man or woman has been seized, how are they supposed to come forward with any information which could clear the accused, such as a cast-iron alibi? Where a guilty suspect is concerned, there's a danger that witnesses' or, indeed, victims' evidence will never be heard."And there is also an op-ed piece by John Kampfner in which he argues that "police secrecy insults democracy". He writes:"The worst form of abuse of power is when the forces of law and order see their job as not just dispensing the law, but as making it and interpreting it in whatever way they see fit. By deciding that individuals facing charges should not be named, the police appear to be doing just that."He also takes issue with the recommendations of both Dame Elizabeth Filkin and Lord Justice Leveson that contacts between the police and the press should be made public."Post-Leveson, the police have been on the defensive and seem to have interpreted the report as an excuse to become more secretive," writes Kampfner. "This is a deeply worrying trend."Deeply worrying indeed. It is part of the culture of secrecy that still pervades British society. I am fully behind this call for complete openness of justice. The principle is clear. But past practice has led, too often, to the defaming of innocent suspects. Papers have to clear up their act in order to gain public support for their stand.