Four young men have been arrested over the carjack killing of Harjinder Singh Bhurji in east London, police said on Wednesday.Three suspects, aged 20, 19 and 17, are being held at an east London police station after being arrested on suspicion of murder, Scotland Yard said. The fourth is being held on suspicion of handling stolen goods.Relatives spoke of their grief at the death of 32-year-old Bhurji, who was apparently stabbed in the chest after refusing to hand over the keys to his black Mercedes CLK coupe.Bhurji was sitting in the sports car talking to a female friend when a man opened the passenger door and dragged her from the car.The victim, who lived in Ilford, east London, initially tried to hide the keys under his seat, but the man threatened to harm his friend if he did not hand them over.He was stabbed as he attempted to retrieve the keys before the thief drove off with his vehicle.Bhurji's uncle, Narinder Shargill, who has flown from San Francisco to be with his relatives, expressed his shock over the "senseless" crime.The victim's best friend Gurmit Birdi, 32, said Bhurji's family was "distraught". "He was a very nice person – he never did anything wrong," he said. "He lived his life and enjoyed his life … he was a happy person. He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time."For his family and friends, this is just unbelievable. I can't even think straight – God knows what his family are going through."Shargill told ITV1's Daybreak: "My sister got married two weeks ago, so the entire family was here from all over the world. It was a time of joy and celebration."Two weeks later, to be in a state of mourning is just incredible. We just can't imagine something like this [would] happen. This crime is so senseless."Bhurji was pronounced dead at the scene, in Ilford, after police were called. The car was found abandoned in Forest Glade, Chingford, at 2.45am.Bhurji's friend was found at the scene uninjured, but she was suffering from shock.Detective Chief Inspector Phil Rickells, leading the investigation, said: "The suspect appears to have been purely motivated by stealing the car because, at this early stage, we can find no other obvious motive."A post-mortem examination is being held at East Ham mortuary.