 Scotland Yard yesterday claimed to have smashed one of the biggest drug trafficking rings in Britain, using a mechanical digger to gain entrance to the luxury home of one of the alleged masterminds.In 30 simultaneous dawn raids, police seized an estimated 111kg of cocaine, worth around £5.5m, including 100kg at a single address in Surrey. A total of 23 people were arrested in London and surrounding counties. Detectives said they had also seized firearms, a silencer and cash in the biggest series of drug raids they have staged at one time. The drug ring is believed to have been worth £100m and to have consisted of several gangs who came together to form one trafficking ring. Scotland Yard said the raids involved 520 officers and had taken seven weeks to plan, after a six-month intelligence operation. Detective Superintendent Steve Richardson, who was in charge of yesterday's operation, said the raids were the final blow to dismantle the network. He described the gang as "ruthless and determined criminals" who profited from illegal drugs.Police said the mechanical digger was brought in because of extra security at the house in Hillingdon, west London. Officers used circular saws and sledgehammers to break through metal gates over the front and rear doors as a helicopter carrying a spotlight hovered at the scene. The house was equipped with CCTV cameras and several expensive cars, including a Porsche, two Mercedes and a Hummer, were parked outside. A 40-year-old man and a younger man were arrested at the property and taken to a north London police station.Police said that smashing into the property with the digger had been necessary. They had needed to gain entry and control of the scene as soon as possible to avoid evidence being destroyed.Richardson said: "We have targeted the key players in a serious and organised criminal network, culminating in a huge blow to the illegal drugs industry in the UK. These criminals have been living the lives of wealthy businessmen through criminal activity and today we have put a stop to this. We believe this network has been supplying drugs around the country, earning millions of pounds every week."He said criminals laundered more than £100m of drug money through a network of foreign exchange bureaus and other financial businesses. Their business was generating so much money that they struggled to launder it. The plan they came up with was to exchange suitcases full of €500 (£375) banknotes, the world's highest value note. The cash, now in more manageable smaller and lighter packages, would then be taken to Europe and invested in property and bank accounts.The drug ring used a taxi business, based in a corrugated iron and breeze block building in west London, as its headquarters. Police said £3m-£4m passed through the taxi company every week.Yesterday police sought court orders to freeze bank accounts linked to the drug ring and access to properties across mainland Europe.Police said 20 of those arrested were detained on suspicion of drug trafficking and money laundering, while three were arrested for suspected immigration offences. A 45-year-old man and a woman of unknown age were arrested at a property in Willesden, north-west London, where police found a gun and drugs. In West Molesey, Surrey, a 54-year-old man of Egyptian origin, suspected of acting as a financial middle man, was arrested. In Beckenham, Kent, a 54-year-old man was arrested after a gun, £2,000, and a pepper spray canister were found.