Christians have called for churches to combat gun and knife crime because they are in a strong position to make communities safer, according to research. The Church Consultation on Violent Crime, launched today by Premier Christian Radio and the Metropolitan Black Police Association, reveals that 65% of churchgoers thought their churches should be involved in reducing violent crime by working in partnership with the police.The findings come days after the fatal shooting of 16-year-old Jonathan Matondo, whose dreams of becoming a preacher ended when he was killed last week.The Rev Jacques Kinsiona, from the Light of Christ Church, said the Sheffield teenager had been a regular churchgoer until two months ago and had talked about entering the clergy. More than 3,240 church members and leaders from across the UK took part in the survey and 89% of these felt gun and knife crime was an issue for the church to address.The Rev Ermal Kirby, who worked on the report, said churches could not sit back when human lives were at stake. "People who are affected are members of our church, mothers, fathers and friends, they are part of our congregation."Churches can help people put their lives back together, but they can also offer opportunities to young people. We're in a position to be seen as honest brokers. We can have the trust of different groups." Rev Kirby, whose organisation Hope For London aims to combat violent crime in the capital, said there were a combination of factors that were pulling young people towards gangs."There is pleasure, prestige and power on the drugs and guns scene," he said. "Young people want to be somebody and get respect."They are frustrated ... People are looking for outlets and if they don't find these channels, they find different ways."Bevan Powell, deputy chairman of the Metropolitan Black Police Association, welcomed the report, saying that violent crime was not just a responsibility for the police, but society in general. His remarks came as another leading black police officer said that more people from ethnic minorities needed to be stopped and searched if Britain was to win the fight against violent crime.Keith Jarrett, president of the National Black Police Association, told the Observer: "From the return that I am getting from a lot of black people, they want to stop these killings, these knife crimes, and if it means their sons and daughters are going to be inconvenienced by being stopped by the police, so be it."