A young nightclubber was given a second chance by the court of appeal yesterday to convince a judge and jury that he had been falsely charged with assault to distract attention from his alleged victim's humiliating death on a police station floor.The court ordered a retrial of a civil case against Humberside police by Jason Paul, who was wrongly accused of causing grievous bodily harm to Christopher Alder, a black former paratrooper who choked to death in Hull while four police officers stood by. Lord Justice Brooke, sitting with Lord Justice Chadwick and Lord Justice Maurice Kay, ruled that a judge sitting in Sheffield last year had been wrong to dismiss Mr Paul's claim on the grounds that there was no factual evidence of police deceit. He ordered that a new jury should be sworn in before a different judge to hear the case. Christopher Alder's death in April 1998 after a fight outside a Hull nightclub has caused continuing controversy, with his family preparing an appeal to Europe after the failure of a criminal prosecution of five police officers. A sergeant and four constables were cleared of manslaughter and neglect of duty at a crown court trial, after an inquest jury decided that Alder's death in police custody had been an unlawful killing. Lord Justice Brooke, who is vice-president of the appeal court's civil division, ruled there was evidence from which a jury could have concluded that the police charged Mr Paul to draw public attention away from their own misconduct. Mr Paul, who is also black, was originally arrested on suspicion of murdering 37-year- old Alder, then charged with GBH, and finally told in June 1998 that the Crown Prosecution Service had dropped the case and accepted he had nothing to do with the ex-paratrooper's death. Mr Paul was arrested after trying to stop a fight between Alder and another man outside the Waterside nightclub in Hull. He went voluntarily to the police after hearing the next day that Alder had died and was distraught when he was arrested on suspicion of murder without even being questioned. His solicitor, Chez Cotton, said following the appeal court hearing: "He is very relieved because he has an extremely strong case that Humberside police charged him to distract public attention away from their own behaviour. "They allowed Christopher Alder to die while lying on the floor in a police custody suite with his hands handcuffed behind his back, with his trousers around his knees, while five police officers stood by and did nothing." Mr Cotton added: "Jason Paul wishes the Alder family success in their continued battle for justice."