The failure to tackle the "obstinately high" reconviction rate of ex-prisoners is responsible for nearly one-fifth of all crime at a cost of £10.8bn a year to victims and the country, according to an unpublished official report commissioned by Tony Blair.Research seen by the Guardian shows that tackling the reconviction rates of those released from prison could have a big impact on reducing the crime rate, as ex-prisoners are responsible for as much as 18% of recorded crime, or 900,000 offences a year. The draft report from the government's social exclusion unit estimates that each released prisoner who gets convicted again commits at least five crimes while they are at liberty at a cost of £65,000 to the criminal justice system - and that excludes the extra costs of homelessness, drug treatment, family poverty, children taken into care, and welfare benefits. But it also points out the wider cost to communities of crime such as the private housing estate in the north-west of England built eight years ago, where anti-social behaviour and fear of crime has reduced house prices from £45,000 to only £15,000. "It is perverse that no one has responsibility or the resources to prevent these costs arising," says the unpublished report to the prime minister. Reconviction rates of ex-prisoners fell during the 1980s but rose again in the 1990s and "has remained obstinately high (at 64%) in recent years". The findings from the social exclusion unit on the costs of reoffending will bring a new urgency to Mr Blair's promise to tackle the "revolving door" syndrome in the criminal justice system and ensure that sentences do not end at the prison gate. In a speech today previewing next month's criminal justice white paper, he is expected to argue that major changes are needed in the rules of evidence in criminal trials, to tackle falling conviction rates. Mr Blair is expected to give strong backing to reform of the law on double jeopardy which prevents a retrial in murder cases. Other reforms in the white paper will include the use of hearsay evidence, the admissibility of bad character and witness statements, and the disclosure of relevant past con victions to juries. The prime minister is also expected to foreshadow moves to speed up the criminal court process by charging defendants with fewer offences and putting plea bargaining on a formal basis for the first time in Britain. Mr Blair will argue that such reforms, based on Lord Justice Auld's review of the role of the criminal courts, are needed to put "victims and witnesses at the heart of the system". Senior figures inside the criminal jus tice system are increasingly anxious about a "lack of balance" in the anti-defence tone of the white paper. The Law Society yesterday vigorously rejected a plan by ministers to fine lawyers who delay cases to boost their fees, arguing that there was simply no evidence that lawyers are prolonging cases unnecessarily. But with ministers braced for next month's national crime figures - the first to show an increase for six years - the government is determined to renew its anti-crime credentials. Mr Blair's speech to a Metropolitan police conference in London will be immediately preceded by a tough message from the commissioner, Sir John Stevens. Britain's most senior police officer is expected to underline the criticism of defence lawyers, describing tactics that delay and "frustrate" criminal trials as "scandalous".