Anthony Seldon ("All that I admired about Tony Blair is being destroyed by his lack of humility", Comment, last week) criticises Tony Blair for misjudgments in his handling of the Iraq war but does "not believe that he should apologise for the fact of taking the country to war".True, apologising would be meaningless, but Mr Blair clearly owes the Chilcot inquiry an explanation of his catastrophic decision to join the US in attacking Iraq. According to the evidence already given to Chilcot, it was a condition of UK participation in the war that it must have the prior approval of the UN Security Council, which Blair manifestly failed to get. The FCO lawyers had warned that attacking Iraq without UN authority would "amount to the crime of aggression" and the lord chancellor warned that the legal justification for war was, at best, shaky.Two of Blair's most senior and trusted advisers have told Chilcot that in their view the weapons inspectors should have been given more time before any resort to military action. The military have confirmed that our forces could have disengaged right up to the last moment.Blair would have had ample justification for holding back. Was it that he feared bitter accusations of cowardice from Bush and the loss of his matinee idol status with American public opinion? The Iraq inquiry, and all of us, including Dr Seldon, are entitled to know why, at the supreme crisis of his political life, our prime minister and a supine cabinet took our country into an illegal, premature, unnecessary and disastrous war when he could so easily have declined to do so.Brian Barder, HM diplomatic service, 1965-94London SW18These vigilantes deserve clemencyCatherine Bennett, commenting on the case of Munir Hussain, whose home and family were attacked and burgled, says she is against "a brutal free for all in which the rule of law counts for nothing". She opposes "violent freelance retribution" and goes on to endorse Mr Hussain's imprisonment ("What sort of society praises vigilantes with cricket bats?", Comment).The burglars physically attacked Mr Hussain's wife, sons and daughter. Mr Hussain overreacted. How would Ms Bennett have responded if someone had entered her home and threatened her family?Shouvik DattaOrpington, Kent■ I have known Munir Hussain for 20 years through his work for race relations in High Wycombe and his work in the Asian community. I was a councillor in the ward adjacent to where he and his brother live, and mayor of High Wycombe and chairman of Wycombe district council. I always found him to be a man of honour. What has brought him to his present situation is totally out of keeping. I can only hope he and his brother can receive clemency.Ted CollinsMarlow, BucksChristians didn't steal from pagans The notion that the early Christians simply adapted earlier stories about pagan gods to create the stories about Jesus is popular today, but rests upon no good evidence and has been debunked by scholars ("So much for Gospel truths", Letters). Your correspondent Barry Thorpe unaccountably mentions Mithras. We know virtually nothing about his cult. Most of the material in the Gospels is best understood against a background of Judaism. Unfortunately for those who wish to paint the early Christians as plagiarists, it is hard to see any pagan mythology in there. I agree that it would be good if true religious history were taught in schools; it would protect children from being taken in not only by the myths of religions, but by the myths spread by those who seek to discredit religion even at the expense of truth and integrity.Jonathan HillLondon SE14An appeal for the victims of GazaOne year on from Israel's invasion of the Gaza Strip, the Israeli government continues to imprison 1.5 million Palestinians and prevent the rebuilding of its shattered infrastructure.Israel's blockade of Gaza, described by the UN fact-finding mission as "collective punishment", stops reconstruction materials and humanitarian aid from reaching those who so desperately require it.As a result of the blockade, many Palestinians, now suffering in the grip of winter, are forced to live in temporary shelters or partially destroyed homes. More than two-thirds of the population require United Nations aid merely to survive.We call upon all parties to alleviate the suffering of the people of Gaza and specifically the British government and the international community to apply meaningful pressure upon Israel to abide by UN security council resolution 1860, to end this flagrant abuse of international law and lift the blockade. The confinement and punishment of an entire population is no way to bring about peace for all the people of the Middle East.Nick Clegg MP, leader of the Liberal Democrats; Richard Burden MP, chair of the Britain-Palestine All Party Parliamentary Group; Ed Davey MP, shadow foreign secretary, Liberal Democrats; Michael Moore MP, shadow secretary of state for international development, Liberal Democrats; Tony Lloyd MP, chair of the parliamentary Labour party; Dr Brian Iddon MP, secretary of the Britain-Palestine APPG; Christine Russell MP, treasurer of the Britain-Palestine APPG; Martin Linton MP, chair of Labour Friends of Palestine & the Middle East; Jo Swinson MP, foreign affairs spokesperson, Liberal Democrats; Baroness Northover, spokesperson on international development, House of Lords, Liberal Democrats; John Austin MP, joint chair of the Council for Arab-British Understanding; Roger Berry MP; Clive Betts MP; Colin Breed MP, joint chair of the Council for Arab-British Understanding; Peter Bottomley MP; Alistair Carmichael MP; Michael Connarty MP; Neil Gerrard MP; David Lepper MP; Tom Levitt MP; Andy Love MP; Bob Marshall-Andrews MP; Andrew Slaughter MP; Dr Phyllis Starkey MP; Lord Steel; Sarah Teather MP; Derek Wyatt MP; Sir Robert Atkins MEPAn Olympic gold for diversity Your report suggesting that London 2012 organisers are not delivering on their commitment to promote equality and diversity fails to recognise the real achievements that have been made ("Sebastian Coe's London Olympics team in row with equality watchdog", News).The London 2012 Equality and Diversity Forum's recent publication Working Towards an Inclusive Games highlights London 2012's Gold Standard Award for organisations taking part in the Diversity Works for London programme. This encourages London's employers to put in place practices to support a diverse worker-and-supplier base and reap the business benefits that this provides.Richard Barnesdeputy mayor of London; chair of the London 2012 Equality and Diversity ForumNo butts. I was the UC smoker"No one has smoked on University Challenge for a long time, if ever" (Will Buckley, Sport). Can I put myself on the record here: Wingard, Sussex University, reading English, 1975? I smoked a couple of Player's No 6 during the recording – there weren't any ashtrays and I can't remember what I did with the ash/dimps.Did it impair my performance? I don't know, but we were knocked out in the first round. My grandmother asked why I was surrounded by a kind of mist.We were all very disappointed that the teams did not actually sit one on top of the other.Andrew WingardMatlock Derbyshire