Why do Britons keep stabbing each other in August? Why do seaside hotels burn down in August? Why do children disappear in August, examinations get easier and Heathrow become the world's worst airport? The answer lies not in reality but in appearance. News editors abhor a vacuum. Half an hour of airtime and 10 pages of news must be filled each day, whatever the weather. If a story normally confined to the local press is given national prominence, so be it.Nor can comment take a holiday. The recent "spate" of drunken teenage stabbings is a seasonal story on which can be hung an entire world view. As gangs of feckless youths (last year they were "feral") roam Britain's town and city centres, the response is to blame parents, schools, the police or the government, depending on one's major premise. Any stick will do to beat a dog.There is nothing new about gang attacks. Cities have long been terrorised by apprentices, hooligans, teddy boys, call them whatever. Their victims are usually just unlucky, like those of a road accident. Yet such incidents evoke a potent mix of prejudice and policy, with decent citizens seen as being under threat from a demonic force at loose in the public domain.The teenage street gang may be a downmarket version of Slytherin house at Hogwarts, of youths deprived of family and taking refuge in a world of group loyalty, language, omerta and vendetta. Yet I am sure middle-class parents queueing up for the latest Harry Potter volume never imagine their children as seeking relief from the pains of growing up in a social pathology of secret powers and group violence.Yet the instant response to a stabbing is to blame the family. A series of chief constables, led by Cheshire's Peter Fahy, has used August to opine that the fault lies with parents, whose binge-drinking children should be put into care. Politicians add that parents should be hit with penalty fines and parenting courses, as if having such children were not punishment enough. David Cameron puts the violence down to "anarchy in the UK" and a "failure to support the family", while a cabinet minister, John Denham, demands that old standby, "tougher legislation". A "shock poll" chimes in, with half the nation thinking the streets are more violent than a year ago (presumably the silent other half disagrees). No matter that there were 243 "homicides with a sharp instrument" in 1995 and 236 in 2005. This is August, and things must be getting worse. Whatever most irks us about society is to blame.Most of those mentioned in stabbing incidents do not have families and are unlikely to be susceptible to a "family policy". But then the family is the easiest butt of criticism because by definition it is someone else we are discussing. Were it our family in trouble, the fault would suddenly lie with schools, the police, the government and "society". Nothing brings on an attack of socialism like being the parent of a teenage child.Nor is there any solace in collective guilt. Move beyond the family, and we encounter a miasma of unease that all is not well with Britain's institutions of social control. Schools no longer concern themselves with out-of-school activity. Police are never seen on the streets. The churches are in decline. Youth groups atrophy. As with all golden age theories, the mind harks back to a period when neighbourhoods cohered and discipline walked the streets. Somehow, public policy used to work.Certainly there must be some explanation why British teenagers are markedly more unruly, drunk, drug-obsessed, pregnant and imprisoned than those elsewhere in Europe. While some of this may be due to dodgy statistics, much must be susceptible to public policy - or what is government for?Hence it stands to reason that if the real price of alcohol is reduced by the Treasury by some 50% since 1980, under intense lobbying by the drinks industry, and if alcohol is made more available through later pub hours, consumption will rise, not fall. The consumption of cigarettes fell as higher duties were imposed and this week it was revealed that cigarette sales have slumped by 7% since smoking in public buildings was banned. So-called social habits can be influenced by government policy. Just as less smoking is a result of policy, so is increased drunkenness. It is hardly surprising there has been a rise in drink-related crime.Likewise it has been policy to promote dispersed housing estates, even when these are known to segregate neighbourhoods. It has been policy to encourage giant gated blocks of flats in cities, even though this discourages the informal social mixing familiar in other European town centres. It has been policy to withdraw the visible presence of policemen from streets and into offices and cars, despite overwhelming public opinion demanding the opposite. It has been policy to close playing fields, sports clubs and adventure centres through ever-tighter health and safety regimes.My favourite culprit for the apparent rise in social anarchy is the stripping out of familiar leadership from communities. When a place is caught up in some catastrophe, no elected leader appears to speak for it. In France, Germany or the US, the mayor is first on the scene and first on the screen. In Britain the best on offer is a chief constable, a vicar or a headteacher. It is rarely someone known to the community, let alone accountable to it.Britain has achieved precisely the state against which de Tocqueville warned, of democracy degenerating into an atomised society devoid of local bonds, where everyone hides behind the walls of house and family and senses no responsibility for communal wellbeing. There are no municipal mayors, block associations and village elders with money and power at their disposal to whom communities have customarily turned in time of trouble. Britons leave it to heroes to "have a go", in every sense of the phrase. More formally they expect central government to "do something" about everything, however trivial.This is fool's gold. Governments have dismantled the conduits of leadership and thus of control that offered a framework of local discipline in British communities, as they do abroad. We can bemoan the resulting loss of authority among the young, but we can hardly be surprised. It is government policy.simon.jenkins@theguardian.com