The government is not prepared to make further compromises in its police reform bill to get it past opposition in the House of Lords, a Home Office minister indicated today.Changes have already been made to the bill to take account of concern among Conservative and Liberal Democrat peers about the extra authority it would have given the home secretary over individual police forces and about the introduction of civilian wardens to support police. Home Office minister John Denham called on opposition peers today to stop "politicking" and allow the bill to complete its passage through parliament. But the shadow home secretary, Oliver Letwin, indicated that the Tories still want David Blunkett to concede more changes to the controversial legislation. Mr Denham said that the Home Office had gone "a very considerable way" to answer peers' concerns. Instead of giving the home secretary the power to demand an action plan on a crime problem from chief constables, it now allows him only to direct police authorities to ask for one and to comment on it - but not re-write it - when delivered, he said. Mr Denham told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Oliver Letwin has got to face up to reality. There is a huge amount in this bill - for example, new measures to control anti-social behaviour. "He has got to make the choice: does he want to delay these measures, which are popular, welcome and needed, for the sake of what is now becoming politicking around an important issue?" Mr Denham added: "We have made it clear that, at the end of the day, if at local level the chief constable and police authority are not able to deliver the quality of service that the public need, the home secretary needs to have the power to act." But Mr Letwin told the BBC: "I think we are moving in the right direction, but I don't think we have quite got there yet." Conservatives were concerned that the effect of the reforms would be to "nationalise the police force by running it from a desk in Whitehall", he said. Mr Letwin added: "I can see that David Blunkett's aim is a perfectly honourable one, which is to try to improve policing. "But I think we need to be very, very careful indeed to make sure that home secretaries don't ever get the power to run small bits of - or indeed the whole of - police forces. "We don't believe the Home Office, in the long run, is good at running police forces and we don't think the professionals will ever be sufficiently enthused if they are run that way," he said. "We think there is a danger in the long run to civil liberties if we have political influence in the police. "We want to see a very clear demarcation that it is only the police authority that is responsible for having action plans and so on from chief constables and the only thing the home secretary should be able to do is to trigger that process," he added.