Some have spoken of a blinding flash of all-encompassing white, others of a heavy thud or a jolt like an electric shock, yet others of an invisible pulse of pressure that propelled them into the air and into a different life.To David Gardner, the moment that Mohammed Siddique Khan blew himself to pieces a couple of metres to his left was experienced as a sudden, surprising pop, "like a balloon bursting".He was puzzled, initially, about the noise, until realising some weeks after the blast that it was probably the sound of the detonator that he remembers. The explosion itself would leave him permanently deaf in one ear.Like almost everyone else, Gardner was on his way to work. He had dropped his 20-month-old son at nursery and, it being a lovely morning, had walked from his home in Hampstead to Finchley Road station. At Baker Street, he changed on to the Circle line, heading to High Street Kensington, via Edgware Road.It was his habit always to stand. But for some reason that day, he sat. That weekend he would be directing an amateur production of Julius Caesar, in which he was also to play Brutus, and he had brought only his script, leaving everything else at home, in order to concentrate on his lines.He was reading when the bomb exploded. Then, "a rushing of wind, kinetic, things flying, black and white. Everything just ... absolutely ..."He hit his head on something, and had a sensation of flying through the air. When he landed, an eternity later, he was still holding the script, "still going through my lines ... until I remember thinking to myself, this is silly. This is silly. Something has clearly happened."Gardner is 56 now, a warm and voluble South African who seems at times overwhelmed by his fortune in surviving, against the odds, a blast that killed six other commuters.After almost a half century of bachelorhood, he had recently married his wife Angela and had a son, Matthew; it is clear that his surprise late family was an unexpected, rejuvenating joy. He was also very fit, after a lifetime of competing in ultramarathons.That may have helped his survival; he doesn't know. Maybe it was the plastic screen to his left, shielding him from some of the impact. Probably, he knows, it was the people standing between him and Khan who took the brunt of the impact, and who did not survive.The light, in the moments after the explosion, was like old photographs of the Somme, Gardner says, like "some sort of godforsaken place". He had landed on the floor in front of his seat, his legs projecting oddly in front of him. His first instinct was to pat himself down, "to see if I was alive, basically. I felt I was all there, until my hand ventured to my left side, and I felt this muddy, mushy ..."His left leg was largely gone. On it was resting an arm. He didn't look, but lifted it off his leg, and set it down, aware "that whoever it belonged to was not alive any more".Gardner himself was losing a lot of blood; like many of the survivors, he has a "saviour", or rather more than one, to thank for his survival. A fellow South African, Jason Rennie, had been in the same carriage but a little further from the bomb site. Gardner remembers Rennie's own "cold blood" dripping on him as he made his way along the carriage to help."There was a great tearing of shirts," says Gardner. "I think I made some crack, 'Oh, it's not [as easy as] in the movies.' " Rennie sat with him, talking about cricket, his birthday, the play, waiting for more than 45 minutes until medics arrived, "his bloody hand holding my hand". Neither man realised then that both their hands were broken.The weeks in hospital are a blur – "there was lots of morphine pressing when I was conscious" – but he remembers highlights, such as when Angela first saw him sitting up in a chair, or when Matthew visited for the first time, 10 days after the attack, nervously clutching a balloon.Gardner has a computerised leg now, which he plugs in every evening, but cannot run any more – a great sadness.Three years after the attack, he and Angela had a daughter, whom they named after Jane Pitken, the first paramedic who reached him and inserted a fluid line. The memory of that moment he describes as going "from darkness to light"."I survived because people saved me," he says now, calling those acts of bravery and kindness "so much love"."Some people unfortunately, right next to me ... probably with similar injuries, didn't survive. And it must be terrible for their families because they will never see what I have seen."But that love that was shown to us [who survived] was also shown to those who didn't." He hopes that might offer their families some comfort."It wasn't a godforsaken place."• This article was amended on 6th May 2011 to include the fact that David Gardner was injured in the Edgware Road bombing on 7/7