Colin Blanchard, the IT consultant who created and shared images of child sex abuse with nursery worker Vanessa George, could spend the rest of his life in jail for his role as the "hub" of a paedophile ring.Blanchard was given an indeterminate sentence for the protection of the public after being described today by the sentencing judge, Mr Justice Royce, as "warped, wicked, dangerous, devious and manipulative".Royce said the parole board should not consider Blanchard for release until he had served at least nine years but was keen to emphasise that he was so dangerous he might never be freed."I have no doubt whatsoever that Colin Blanchard constitutes a high risk of serious harm to children," he said. Addressing Blanchard directly, he continued: "If the parole board is not satisfied it is safe to you to be released then you will remain in prison for the rest of your days."Royce said Blanchard, 40, was a "Svengali-like" character, a "predator" who encouraged four women, including George, to abuse children and take pictures of that abuse. "Your pernicious grooming of women whose sexual interest in children you stimulate, then nurture and feed on is plain to see. You were the hub of this paedophile wheel," he said.Also sentenced were former adult careworkers Tracy Lyons, 41, and Tracy Dawber, 44, who were both jailed for four years. George, 40, and the fourth woman, Angela Allen, 40, are already serving indeterminate sentences.Outside Bristol crown court, police said they believed they had found all of those involved in the ring. Detective Constable Andy Pilling, of Greater Manchester Police, said Blanchard was a "manipulator who used people for his own ends." He said it was "possible" that without Blanchard the women would never have abused children but added: "No one should be under the misapprehension that they were somehow forced into abusing children – they willingly took part."The sentencing means all members of what the Crown Prosecution Service has described as "one of the most sickening paedophile rings this country has seen" are behind bars.But the judge reminded the court that the impact of the group's crimes would be felt for many years yet.The case, he said, had caused "widespread revulsion and disbelief." He told Blanchard: "With your encouragement Vanessa George used her position as nursery worker at Little Ted's nursery [in Plymouth] to photograph herself abusing little children in her care. You must have known what a terrible breach of trust that was going to involve. You did not care a jot."Royce said e-mails and texts between Blanchard, George and the fifth woman, Angela Allan, were "deeply disturbing." He flagged up one in which Blanchard discussed with George "raping a baby until it dies". "These and others are sickening and reveal attitudes of breathtaking depravity," said the judge. "You also made it clear in communications with Vanessa George that you had groomed or were in the process of grooming a mother who had young children."Defending Blanchard, Greville Davis said he had been abused as a child by an uncle and his uncle's friends, which had left a "deep psychological scar". The uncle is now dead.For Lyons, Stephen Smyth, said she was a "vulnerable" woman who was "targeted" by Blanchard. Dawber's barrister, Anne Brown said Blanchard was a person who could "draw" women in. He had appeared to be a "lifeline" to her when she was lonely and isolated. Dawber, the only woman who had actually met Blanchard before the ring was discovered, had grown "dependent on him".The gang was brought to justice after a work colleague of Blanchard found child abuse images on his computer in June 2009 and called police. Detectives discovered that Blanchard met the women on Facebook and possibly on other sites and encouraged them to abuse children and share the images of the abuse taking place.Blanchard, of Rochdale, George, of Plymouth, Allen, from Nottinghamshire, and Lyons, of Portsmouth, pleaded guilty to a string of charges of sexual assault and making and possessing child pornography.Dawber, who was from Merseyside, was found guilty by a jury of sexually abusing a child and allowing Blanchard himself to take pictures of it.It emerged during the sentencing hearing that Lyons had worked as a volunteer for a nursery – though only on two occasions and always while with others.The judge addressed remarks directly to Blanchard who declined to stand in the dock because he said he could not bear to be close to Dawber.