Tony Martin, the farmer jailed for shooting dead a burglar at his remote farmhouse, was secretly moved from prison yesterday in preparation for his release.The highly unusual step was agreed in an effort to spare Martin the media scrum which would otherwise have greeted him on Monday, when he is due to be freed. The deci sion was also made in the light of continuing fear for his future security. It is believed that he was taken to a safe house or a police station not far from his Norfolk home and will stay there until he is handed over to the tabloid newspaper which has bought the rights to his story. Martin was jailed for life for murder after shooting Fred Barras, 16, who broke into his farmhouse in the Fenland vil lage of Emneth Hungate in August 1999. The conviction was reduced to manslaughter on appeal when the judges accepted that Martin, 58, was suffering from a paranoid personality disorder. His life sentence was replaced by one of five years, of which he has served two thirds. Ever since the shooting there have been persistent rumours that his life could be in danger from those out to avenge Barras's death. Martin's MP, Henry Bellingham, who was involved in the talks on preparing his release, said it was thought better that the farmer did not have to run the gauntlet of the media or ill-wishers. Late yesterday morning Martin was taken from High point prison in Suffolk. It is believed that word leaked out when a group of builders spotted him leaving. Martin, whose case has been one of the most prominent of recent years, is used to being moved around. He has been in five prisons in five counties since his conviction. On bail after the shooting, he was held in a safe house in the Midlands, but had to be returned to prison when the press discovered where he was. Yesterday the police were combing his land and installing CCTV cameras around his farmhouse, Bleak House. A Norfolk police spokesman, Mel Lacey, said: "We have been to visit Mr Martin in prison a number of times to discuss the details of how we will be making his house secure." Mr Bellingham said Martin planned two campaigns on his release, one to protect householders who defend themselves against intruders, another to prevent burglars getting legal aid to sue for compensation if they are injured during a break-in. Barras's accomplice, Brendon Fearon, who was wounded in the raid, is suing Martin for damages. The case is due to be heard next year. Martin has said he plans to go home to Bleak House as soon as possible and continue farming. But such is the interest in his case that he will have to wait some time before his craving for the quiet life is satisfied.