The House of Lords appears to be the frontline of British politics at the moment, most notably holding the government to account over its disastrous health reforms. Last week, peers also put pressure on ministers to bring forward their plans to deal with the alarming rise in recorded dog attacks.Most dogs are loyal, caring and often become another loving member of the family. But, sadly, irresponsible ownership can make some dogs dangerous, with too many horrifying episodes in recent memory. Eight people have been killed by dogs in the last four years – six of them children – while another 197 people have been seriously injured in dog-related incidents in the last four years. The personal tragedy of each incident is compounded by the costs to our health service and animal charities.So, it was a positive step to hear environment minister Lord Taylor acknowledge that the issue needs attention, including on the issue of microchipping dogs. My concern, and that of many animal welfare charities, is one of urgency. The government has been dragging its feet on reform since the general election in May 2010. One of the last acts of the Labour government was to prepare the way to reform legislation and powers dealing with dangerous dogs. But nothing has been forthcoming so far.What makes the delay unacceptable is that we all know the scale of the dangerous dogs problem. In 2006-07, 2,510 adults and 1,277 children were treated in A&E departments or admitted to hospital, and the figures are on the increase: 6,000 postal workers injured by dogs every year, three guide dogs attacked by dogs each month and an increasing number of horses and their riders being attacked.Yet the government seems reluctant to act. Yes, there are warm words from Defra. The ministers responsible, Jim Paice and Lord Taylor are aware of the magnitude of the problem. Paice has repeatedly said that "action ... must be taken", and I'm sure deep down he means it. An announcement could come at any time on what the government will do to address the problem, but we've been saying that for over a year.In March 2010, when Labour began the consultation on the various options to tackle the problem of dangerous dogs and irresponsible ownership, we thought there was crossparty agreement. Regardless of the election outcome, everyone seemed convinced something would be done. After all, the soon-to-be prime minister, David Cameron, said in the runup to the 2010 election that the present situation was unacceptable and that a fundamental review of the 1991 Dangerous Dogs Act was needed.It really is time for ministers at Defra to urgently address this issue which is concerning so many people across England and Wales. The Northern Ireland assembly and the Scottish parliament have already acted, showing that a government that really wants to can act decisively on this issue.So what do we want to see? Simple, 18 months after the consultation we need to see the government's firm proposals. They've had more than enough time to consider the options. They'll find Labour eager to assist them pass the necessary legislation needed to prevent needless dog attacks, and an array of different charities and organisations keep to help. The RSPCA, Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, Blue Cross, the Communication Workers Union, Guide Dogs for the Blind, the National Dog Wardens Association, the Police Federation, and many others have collectively outlined what they think is needed to tackle dangerous dogs, providing a strong blueprint for the government.We need to focus on irresponsible owners as well as dangerous dogs, refocus our efforts on the deed not the breed (as many different dogs can be bred to be dangerous by irresponsible owners), to extend the law to cover private property, to bring in Dog Control Notices, to prevent attacks before they happen, and consider the introduction of microchipping all dogs, including puppies.Spanish novelist, poet and playwright Miguel de Cervantes wrote in the 15th century that "delay always breeds danger; and to protract a great design is often to ruin it". How right he was, as it almost feels like he was writing about the government's inaction on dangerous dogs. So ministers, get a move on.