The Thai prime minister today ordered the country's police to catch the killer of the British backpacker Katherine Horton.Thaksin Shinawatra admitted that the murder of the 21-year-old student had damaged Thailand's reputation as a peaceful tourist haven. "I have ordered police to get the killer of the British tourist ... as soon as possible," Mr Shinawatra told officials in Bangkok. "This case has caused severe damage to the reputation of our nation and the tourist business." Earlier today, police said they hoped DNA samples taken from a number of men would help find Ms Horton's killer. An autopsy showed the student, whose body was found off the island of Koh Samui, had been battered and had drowned. Investigators said there was evidence of sexual relations but not rape, and denied reports that a suspect had been detained.A police official said DNA found on the body could have come from the man who killed her.Major General Asawin Khawnmuang said samples of several DNA tests from Thai men and foreigners had been sent to Bangkok for analysis, and results were expected later today. Yesterday, police said they believed Ms Horton had been killed by a single person, and that 12 men had been questioned in connection with her death. Her friend Ruth Adams, who was on holiday with her when she was murdered, was expected to return to Britain today. Ms Adams, from Bromley, was one of the last people to see Ms Horton alive before her body was found off Lamai Beach on Monday. The Reading University students had decided to go to Thailand to see in the new year before embarking on their dissertations. They had been due to return to Britain next week.Ms Adams last saw her friend on the beach, talking to her family on her mobile phone. During the conversation, her mother heard her scream and the line cut out. Ms Horton's father, Ian, and brother, Christopher, were expected to fly back to Britain with her body later today. Yesterday, Ian Horton appealed from the beach where the body was found by a jetskier for witnesses to come forward with information about the killing of "his little girl".