We first met Ryan six years ago, a few weeks after moving to our new house. Driving past a semi-derelict block of flats, we saw a small, skinny boy trying to set fire to the hedge. My partner Ian braked hard, jumped out of the car and hared off after him. "Why do that?" he asked. "You look like a really nice, bright sort of boy, so what were you thinking of?" Ryan stared back in astonishment and burst into tears. He was eight years old.As our sons began to make friends in the neighbourhood, we heard all about Ryan from other boys, who watched his exploits in horrified fascination. Over the next few years, their breathless stories charted his descent into utter delinquency. He had hurled eggs through someone's open window. Nicked a shopping trolley. Got himself barred from the local newsagent's. Been excluded from every school in the area. He was drinking. He packed a knife - or maybe even a gun. It was sometimes hard to separate fact and fiction, but one thing was clear: unless Ryan got some help fast, he was heading relentlessly down the one-way street that had led both his father and brother to prison.Last week I drove to the supermarket. At the main road, the corner was blocked by three boys sitting on their bikes. One of them screamed: "Drive round us, you bitch!" Yes, it was Ryan. I stopped the car and got out. His face screwed up with hate, he spat obscenities without pause as I politely explained the risks of being on the wrong side of the road at a junction. The boy whose bike was furthest out mumbled: "S'awright, I'll move." I recognised him, too: Evan, a former visitor to our house. The third boy muttered: "Shuddup, Ryan, pack it in!" But the demented tirade continued as I pulled away.I'm sure there are plenty who would welcome some vigorous Asbo-ing for Ryan and his friends, but what would that actually achieve? I was shocked by Ryan's mental state. In the past he'd looked like a lost little boy. This time he was wild. I avoided eye contact as I would with a savage dog. It's just possible that some intensive help now might pull him back from the brink, but the odds aren't good. Where was the intervention when it would have made a difference? It isn't as if there is any lack of information about Ryan; for years he has been passing through schools at the speed of light, while the police and social services are probably on his neighbours' speed dial. To dish out an Asbo now would simply compound our abject failure. Ryan has flipped his lid completely, and is way beyond any list of proscribed behaviour.And what about the other two boys - neither of whom offered me any trouble? What message might an Asbo give to them? It would tell them that they are exactly the same as Ryan, that there is no difference between a boy who shuffles and mumbles and one who is beyond the pale. It was always on the cards that Evan, a shy, anxious little boy, might find Ryan's bravado attractive. But what if there were more positive challenges to help Evan grow into himself, in an area devoid of activities or space to kick a football?Asbos are too weak an intervention for lost boys, and too harsh for those who hang around the edge of danger. They do not discriminate between a young person in need of massive containment and one in need of a playground and a good youth service. They trivialise serious delinquency and criminalise aimless boredom. They are society's way of tidying away its inconvenient problems, of washing its hands of responsibility for young people. They represent our failure and dereliction of duty. We should be ashamed of them. Names have been changed.· Terri Dowty is director of Action on Rights for Childrenterri@arch-ed.org