An MP today called for an inquiry into how teachers and social workers failed to spot the neglect of a seven-year-old who died of apparent starvation.The Birmingham Perry Barr MP, Khalid Mahmood, called for Birmingham city council to review its childcare procedures because of the Khyra Ishaq case.Mahmood said Khyra, who died on Saturday, and her five siblings were removed from school by her mother 10 weeks ago amid claims of bullying.The MP said he was told an educational social worker visited the family at their home in Leyton Road, Handsworth, at the time but there were no follow-up checks. Mahmood told GMTV: "What I am calling for is Birmingham city council to look at this – [for] the chief executive to review the procedures and come back and report to us and let us know what has gone wrong."Mahmood said he would raise the case with the council's chief executive, adding that the local authority had "structural issues … that need to be addressed"."I will be asking the local authority at the first available opportunity to account for their inaction. There are lessons to be learned here - we have to be far more stringent with people who don't take their children to school," he said.Birmingham city council said the local board responsible for overseeing child protection in the city would meet tomorrow to consider the case. A council spokesman said: "Birmingham's safeguarding children board will review this case as they do with every child death, and is meeting tomorrow to discuss this case. "Birmingham city council was granted an emergency protection order for the five siblings of Khyra Ishaq as soon as we were made aware of her death. "The care and welfare of the siblings remains our priority and the children have now been placed in foster care."Khyra and her brothers and sisters were taken on Saturday to Birmingham children's hospital, where she was pronounced dead.Sources have said she died of starvation, though West Midlands police say the cause of death is yet to be confirmed. The force issued the following statement: "We can confirm that a seven-year-old girl was taken to hospital on Saturday May 17, where she was pronounced dead."Police are conducting inquiries and a man aged 29 and a woman aged 33 have been charged with neglect and appeared before Birmingham magistrates on May 19."As proceedings are active, we cannot comment further at this time."A spokesman for the Birmingham coroner's office said an inquest was some days away.A neighbour, who described Khyra as a "wonderful girl", hit out at the school and social services today for not protecting her and her siblings. The man, who declined to be named, said any investigation should focus on how the tragedy was allowed to happen."You should really be tough on them at the school and the authorities because they are supposed to be looking after our children. I have a daughter at the same school and I asked them, 'Why didn't you do something about the children?'"If they weren't going to school, the school should have known why. The school should have known something. They couldn't tell me, they just said there will be an investigation."The man, who lives a few doors away from the family, said he had not seen Khyra or her siblings for some time. "They used to be outside having fun but I haven't seen them for about a year and a half now. I thought they might have moved."