Like every parent I was utterly repulsed by the images of Baby P, the 17-month-old who suffered horrendous levels of abuse and injuries at the hands of his mother and her boyfriend.The catalogue of abuse which included a broken back, fractured shinbone, ripped ear and numerous bruises should have been picked up by Baby P's social worker, his health visitor or even the paediatrician who failed to properly examine the child just hours before he died.The fact that it wasn't led to this child's death and yet another shameful chapter in child protection at Haringey Council, which just eight years ago failed to spot the fatal abuse of Victoria Climbié.This shocking case should lead to a yet another full-scale public inquiry. However, this will result in months of evidence gathering and even more disturbing reports about the abuse suffered by this child before a report is published containing dozens of recommendations. Once again, necessarily the report will focus on the management at Haringey's children services and recommend the tightening of rules and regulations that social workers across the country will have to abide by. But we should not delude ourselves into thinking that further structural changes to social service departments are unlikely to prevent further tragedies from occurring. As my recent report on the care system, Couldn't Care Less (pdf), pointed out, social workers, with morale at rock bottom, are already mired in bureaucracy and feel pressured into not splitting up families even when they know that the parent/s are struggling. They also know only too well that our current care system is incapable of looking after the 60,000 children currently being looked after by the state. Children in care suffer poor levels of academic attainment, health and are more likely to go to prison. The figures are worrying. Children in care are five times less likely to achieve five A*-C results at GCSE level, five times more likely to suffer mental illness and nearly a third of all children in custody come from the care system.Added into this toxic mix is the problem faced by social workers as their cash-strapped employers try to manage budget deficits by either keeping vacancies open or recruiting new and inexperienced staff. The report showed that the care system is in a mess and unless we deal with that urgently, more children will be failed. There is no question that, hard pressed as they are, social services and others should have dealt with this case by taking the baby away from the mother, for the protection of the child is paramount. Yet all of this deals with the symptoms rather than the cause. Dysfunctional family life lies at the heart of the problem. Too many of our children are growing up in homes where their destructive lives are set by the time they are three, as a result of their upbringing.So concerned was I by the evidence of this growing problem that I joined forces with Graham Allen to urge politicians of all parties to recognise that this problem is growing and commit to changing it. As the report shows, unless we deal with this now, we will be overwhelmed by the scale of the problem in the next 15 years. Today 25% of children in this country live in single parent families and this trend is set to accelerate. These children are three to six times more likely to experience abuse.These children are too often being raised by inexperienced and ill-equipped mothers without any of the traditional support networks that were available just a generation ago. This problem is further aggravated by the increasing phenomenon of non-biological guesting or substitute fathers. My thinktank, the Centre for Social Justice, has written about these guesting fathers who, like the mothers, are unlikely to have the necessary parenting skills to needed to raise a child.The growth in broken families has been has mirrored by the huge increase in the number of children considered to be "at risk": 1.5 million (one in eight) now fall into this category. Children living with their natural mother and a guest father are eight times more likely to be on the at-risk register. A recent US study found that children living with a non-biological adult are 50 times more likely to die from afflicted injuries than those living with their biological parents. A mounting body of scientific and sociological research shows that the foundations of happy and healthy lives are laid down in the early years of life by the formation of a close bond between parent and child.  This is why Graham Allen and I have called on all political parties to put aside their differences to get to grips with this current crisis in care and to focus their attention on family breakdown. We believe that without a comprehensive approach including earlier intervention with dysfunctional families to change their lives, as has been shown to work in other countries, the at-risk register will grow and grow and we will see more sad outcomes like the tragic cases of children like Baby P and Victoria Climbié.