Differential pay rates for frontline community beat officers and the introduction of outside private investigators to overcome the shortage of trained detectives are among controversial reforms expected in new legislation to modernise the police.The Police Federation yesterday gave a cool welcome to the plans, which will see the introduction of differential pay rates for senior detectives and officers working shift patterns and an end to the restriction on anyone joining the police as anything other than trainee constable at the beginning of their working career.These radical changes in one of the last unreformed public services are already the subject of talks between Home Office ministers and the police organisations but could prove a crucial flashpoint in the government's debate over reform of the public services. Some changes, such as curtailing the use of medical retirements or tackling the disproportionate amount of sick leave among police officers, do not need primary legislation and could proceed with police agreement. The police bill will also see the introduction of an independent police complaints commission that will finally concede the principle that the police should no longer be left to investigate themselves in the most serious cases, such as deaths in custody and police shootings.  Sentencing The second big law and order reform to be piloted by the new home secretary, David Blunkett, will eventually see far-reaching changes in the structure of criminal sentencing in England and Wales. At its heart lie new proposals to deal with about 100,000 persistent offenders and the criminal justice bill will include proposals to change the rules of evidence so previous convictions would be admitted as evidence in court where considered relevant. The bill will be based on a report by a former Home Office civil servant, John Halliday, to be published soon. It will recommend replacement of the early release home detention curfew scheme by a "custody-plus" scheme for 40,000 short sentence prisoners, and a system of sentencing that will ensure repeat offenders face tougher sentences each time they come before the court. The criminal justice bill will also see the introduction of further measures against paedophiles including ensuring that those who commit offences abroad are included on the sex offenders' register. It will reform the law on corruption, making explicitly criminal dubious activities by MPs and foreign public officials.  Double jeopardy The three men accused of killing Stephen Lawrence are unlikely to face a new trial under proposals in the Queen's speech to abolish the "double jeopardy" rule in murder cases. Even if the government decides to make the change retrospective, media coverage which has named them as the killers would almost certainly be held to make a fair trial impossible. A retrial would only go ahead with permission of the court of appeal, which would be highly unlikely . The reform, expected to become law next year, will scrap the ancient rule whereby a defendant cannot be tried again on the same facts if he has already been acquitted. Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight, the Lawrence suspects, had a private prosecution against them by the Lawrence family thrown out after the judge ruled the evidence of Stephen's friend, Duwayne Brooks, inadmissible.  Reform of the courts The government is also to press ahead with measures to overhaul the criminal courts based on recommendations by Lord Justice Auld, who is not expected to deliver his final proposals for several months. The chief reform is a unified criminal court system, with a judge and jury dealing with serious cases and a district judge sitting with magistrates replacing jury trial for a large number of middle-ranking offences. The proposal could prove as controversial as the government's so far unsuccessful attempts to curb the right of defendants to choose jury trial in so-called either way offences such as theft. The bill is also likely to include late sitting, seven day a week courts in high crime areas to speed up the criminal justice process. There could also be specialist courts with specialist judges for fraud and domestic violence. The government also announced a victims' bill of rights to give victims of crime the right to support, protection and information. Victims will have a legal right to explain the impact of the crime on them to the courts and other criminal justice agencies before decisions such as sentencing are taken. Prosecutors will be given the right to challenge defence pleas in mitigation, which often blacken the character of victims. Talk about itWhat would you put in the Queen's speech? Related articles20.06.2001: Queen's speech: key points20.06.2001: What's not in the Queen's speech20.06.2001: Queen's speech: reaction in quotes20.06.2001: Queen lays out government's plans20.06.2001: Communications bill put on hold20.06.2001: What the Queen will announce20.06.2001: Law reform may pave way for new Lawrence trial Related special report What the Queen's speech means for the public sector - Society Guardian The issue explained The Queen's speechThe state opening of parliament Useful linksState opening: parliament siteState opening: royal site The gold state coach