Ministers are looking at controversial plans to distribute leaflets in a neighbourhood to "name and shame" offenders who have been convicted in local courts.The proposal, which is supported by Home Office officials , is seen as a way of restoring confidence in the criminal justice system and embarrassing offenders who might otherwise go unnoticed. Research assessed by the Home Office has shown that criminals hate publicity as much as a fine or a jail sentence.The proposal was pushed for inclusion as a flagship measure in a community justice green paper, but is being opposed by ministry of justice officials who fear that it will be seen as extreme vigilantism. The jostling over this issue is part of a wider Whitehall battle, with some claiming the green paper is the last chance to wrest back the law and order agenda with some hard-edged measures.The delayed green paper is likely to be published next month. The importance to Labour of being tough on crime was underlined by the results of an ICM poll published by the Guardian this week which showed the Tories now have a seven-point lead on law and order. The issue remains the fourth most important subject in determining how the electorate intend to vote.The justice secretary, Jack Straw, is understood to be willing to see punishments put on court intranets, but door to door leaflets, likely to be far more effective at ending the remoteness of courts, have so far been kept out of the draft.Ministers recognise that the demise of local court reporting, due to cuts in local media journalism, has ended one source of communicating the effectiveness of the courts. Justice ministry officials are also still examining plans to give local people the chance to vote on the kind of community service criminals should have to undertake. Supporters of the proposals claim it will give the public greater faith in community payback schemes, but opponents in Whitehall have said it would offend the probation service. Lack of confidence in community payback is one of the primary reasons governments feel forced to build more expensive prisons. Straw has already introduced distinctive yellow jackets for most people on community payback, despite opposition from the probation service. And yet another controversy is brewing over the government's continued refusal to appoint a powerful statutory commissioner for victims and witnesses responsible for speaking up for victims in Whitehall and acting as a counterbalance to the many organisations representing prisoners and offenders. The idea of a victim's commissioner was first proposed by the government in 2004 - and was reannounced in Gordon Brown's party conference speech in September. Instead Downing Street introduced a watered-down option when it appointed a victim's champion, Sara Payne - whose daughter Sarah was murdered. She is working part-time for one year in the Justice Department. The British crime survey showed 79% of the public are confident that the criminal justice system respects the rights of people accused of committing crimes, but only 33% are confident that it meets the needs of victims.A victims' commissioner would work to protect victims from reprisal, press for reform of the police, provide more opportunities for confidential reporting and offer more assurance that action will be taken as a result of coming forward. Discussions are ongoing about whether a victims' compensation fund should be set up so that they would receive compensation from offenders directly and up front.At present unless an offender has the means to pay compensation in a lump sum he normally pays the court in instalments. The victims then receive a monthly payment from the court, ensuring a drawn-out process with payments suspended or ended altogether if the offender fails to pay or is sent to prison. The process means victims are forced to remain in constant touch with the courts to receive compensation. Supporters of the fund idea say it would be better if compensation was paid up front with a third party gathering the cash from the offender.