The prisons ombudsman yesterday criticised a jail where six vulnerable women prisoners died in a 12-month period, saying he was deeply uncomfortable that they had been placed in a segregation unit.Stephen Shaw was speaking at the inquest of Sarah Campbell, 18, the youngest of the six women to die at Styal prison in Cheshire. She died two years ago yesterday, after taking a large quantity of tablets the day after she was convicted of the manslaughter of a pensioner who collapsed from a heart attack after she hassled him for money. The inquest previously heard that Campbell had expressed a fear of reprisals from her co-defendant, who had been sent to the same jail, after she gave evidence against her. She was taken to a cell in the segregation unit, where she later told a nurse she had taken an overdose. Mr Shaw said he felt "deeply uncomfortable" about the practice of putting vulnerable prisoners in the segregation unit when they were at risk of self-harm or suicide. He said it would be "wrong and alarming" if it became a common phenomenon in prisons. Told that there were three women at risk of self-harm in the segregation unit at the time of Campbell's death, he said: "I would be shocked. I use the word shocked in the sense that it is potentially unsafe." He said it "equally is alarming" that one of the vulnerable prisoners had been on the segregation unit at Styal for nine months. Mr Shaw criticised a unit at Styal which dealt with inmates with mental health problems. He told the inquest at Warrington town hall that it was not fulfilling a wholly satisfactory role within the prison and believed it had now closed. "I have no doubt that many of the women could have been more adequately and sensitively cared for outside a penal environment," he said. The ombudsman said he was brought in to investigate following the death of a sixth woman, Julie Walsh, at Styal in August 2003. During a period of just over 12 months there had been six deaths - all women who were within their first month of custody who had previous history of drug abuse and mental health problems. Mr Shaw said two common concerns arose during his investigation of the women's deaths. "The first was what happened at the reception process. The induction of these women when they were first going into prison - in many respects I think it was quite poor." Secondly, "in Sarah's case, there was manifestly an issue of transfer of information. There were issues about information not being shared, in my opinion, in the institution as well." The inquest had earlier heard that a probation officer at Mold crown court, where Campbell was sentenced, was so concerned that he had faxed Styal asking to open a 20/52 SH (self-harm) document. The fax was not received. Mr Shaw said he tried to engender a change in ethos at the prison, backed up by changes in procedure and resourcing. He contrasted Holloway prison with Styal - which has "a relative shortage of resources" compared with its north London counterpart. But he visited Styal again last month and was struck by a "number of changes" in its regime. The reception area had been improved and women were allowed out of their cells for longer periods. Staff were "liberated", he said. "The relationship between staff and prisoners I judged to be extremely healthy, whereas it was anything but healthy eight months after Sarah's death." Styal's deputy governor, Jean Craven, was recalled to answer more questions after making mistakes in her original evidence. She admitted not looking at the self-harm document. The inquest has heard that while on remand, Campbell had self-harmed several times and her mother, Pauline, had written to the governor expressing concerns over her daughter's deteriorating condition. The inquest continues.