If every dog has its day, Britain's German shepherds might be nearing the end of theirs.Recognised for decades as the quintessential guard dog, the alsatian is facing competition from the rottweiler in some UK police forces, where officers fear it is becoming a bit of a poodle. West Midlands police al ready has five rottweilers in service and other forces are said to be considering using the new breed. Inspector Stuart Holder, from the West Midlands force's Balsall Common dog training school, said German shepherd breeders were concentrating more on the family pet market and show dogs, leading to a lack of dogs suitable for police work. The force has its own breed ing programme for alsatians because of the national shortage. "Some German shepherds are now too nervous," said Insp Holder. "We need brave dogs ... rottweilers are perfectly capable of doing the job and look the part. We are now using rottweilers to act as a supplementary breed." Richard Ellis, a police dog trainer at South Yorkshire police, said his force was also looking at using rottweilers. "When you have a rottweiler curling its lips looking at you, it's a pretty menacing sight. You would be inclined to drop your weapon." German shepherds first came to the attention of the British authorities during the first world war, when they were used extensively by the German military on the western front. The Association of Chief Po lice Officers said there were still a good number of German shepherds being used and there were no plans to replace the breed. Malcolm Willis, chairman of the German Shepherd Dog Breed Council of the UK, said the police had tried out other breeds but none had been as reliable as the German shepherd. "German shepherds are bright, they're big enough and they are the sort of dog that everybody knows," he said. "If I had one in my yard, it would be a brave man who would come over the gate." He added: "The police have had rottweilers, they have had dobermans, and they have ended up back with the German shepherd. What do they want - a pit bull? That would bite everyone." 