The death of skydiver Stephen Hilder is no longer being treated as murder, Humberside police announced today.Mr Hilder plunged 13,000ft to his death at Hibaldstow airfield, in Lincolnshire, last July.Detective Superintendent Colin Andrews, who led the inquiry, said: "I am satisfied that we are not looking for anyone else in connnection with Stephen's death. However, it is now in the hands of the coroner to listen to the evidence we have gathered and establish a finding for Stephen's death." The decision to reclassify the case as an unexplained death is linked to new forensic evidence suggesting the 20-year-old was responsible for cutting the cords on both his main and reserve parachutes.Commenting on the decision, Stephen's father, Paul Hilder, said: "We are keeping an open mind regarding the circumstances surrounding Stephen's death." Mr Andrews stopped short of declaring that Stephen had committed suicide, saying that was a matter for the coroner. But he gave details of the evidence on which today's announcement was based. It centred on the results of tests carried out on fibres recovered from a pair of scissors retrieved from the boot of Mr Hilder's car. Similar fibres were also found on clothing worn by Mr Hilder on the day he made the fatal parachute jump. Humberside police said that in addition to the fibres, DNA work carried out on the scissors had found only one set of DNA, which belonged to Mr Hilder. In a statement the force said: "We are not prepared to go into any more detail about these findings as this information will be discussed at length at the coroner's inquest. "These forensic findings, in conjunction with the findings of the criminal investigation, have led police to believe that nobody else is involved in Stephen's death." Mr Andrews defended the investigation, which led to several people being arrested. He said: "Since Stephen died at Hibaldstow more than 10 months ago a huge amount of work has been undertaken by a team of dedicated officers. Our inquiries have taken us the length and breadth of this country as well as further afield, and I can assure you that no stone has been left unturned. "I was always confident that the hard work our officers have invested into this inquiry would pay off, and it now appears that our investigations are coming to an end." Today's announcement came amid growing speculation, which Humberside police refused to confirm or deny, that Mr Hilder, an army cadet, had committed suicide. Humberside police declared the investigation was a murder inquiry from the moment they discovered Mr Hilder's equipment had been deliberately tampered with.Adrian Blair and David Mason, who were Mr Hilder's friends, jumping partners and fellow students at the Royal Military College of Science at Shrivenham, near Swindon, in Wiltshire, were arrested by police in October.Mr Blair, now 20, was told last month he was no longer a suspect, and last night his mother, Hilarie, asked why it had taken so long for the police to clear her son and his friend, Mr Mason, from Cambridge. Mrs Blair said her son, who is now living in Canada on an army placement, had a "tremendous weight on his shoulders" after his arrest, as a result of which he had given up his electrical engineering degree. Speaking at the family home, in Dobwalls, Cornwall, she said she now expected her son and Mr Mason to be publicly cleared by the police. Mrs Blair said she had known her son was innocent "from day one". She added: "The papers implied that they were guilty, but anyone who knows him has never doubted he was innocent."It is a total mystery to me why they did not get this forensic evidence right at the beginning, and why two totally innocent boys were arrested and put through what they were put through when they had not one scrap of evidence. "They helped the police so much. They went up several times to Scunthorpe when asked to help them. They were totally and utterly stunned when they got into the police station and were arrested." She said that, although it had been a tough time for her son, her thoughts were with Mr Hilder's family. Mr Blair still intended to go into the army and hoped to continue skydiving, she added.