A teenager who defrauded eBay customers of more than £45,000 was today sentenced to 12 months detention and training. Phillip Shortman, 18, of Pontypool, South Wales, admitted 21 counts of obtaining property by deception on a previous occasion. Shortman advertised non-existent goods for sale on the online auction site eBay and banked his victims' money, sometimes taunting those who chased up their orders.At Cardiff crown court today, Judge Roderick Denyer QC lifted an order banning the identification of Shortman, who was 18 earlier this week and is married with one child. Sentencing Shortman today, Mr Denyer said some victims had lost significant sums of money. He added that there had been a "persistent course of criminal conduct" for which an adult could receive a sentence of three years imprisonment. "The public are entitled to protection from someone such as yourself," he added.Shortman spent his victims' money on a lavish lifestyle, hiring limousines, going on holidays and buying designer clothes, the court was told. Lawrence Jones, mitigating, said Shortman had few friends at school, and had used the money to buy friendship. He had been shunned by his local community since his arrest, Mr Jones told the court. Prosecutor Stuart McLeese described how the offences took place over a period lasting just over a year.He said Shortman would advertise goods for sale on the internet auction site and, once the auction had closed, victims would be contacted and told they had won. Customers would contact Shortman over the internet or by telephone, and he would usually ask for cash to be placed into a bank account. "The victims would never see the cash again," said Mr McLeese. "Victims would contact the defendant to inquire why they had not received the goods. Calls would be ignored or the defendant would make excuses as to why the goods had not been delivered." The prosecutor said that, on other occasions customers would be "taunted", with Shortman threatening to kill one customer. On another occasion he told his victim: "Ha, ha - you've been done". Another customer was told: "This is my business; I make people fools." By September last year, police had received 21 complaints. Shortman's home was searched and receipts, bank account evidence and computer equipment seized, and he was arrested and interviewed. He made an estimated £50,000 to £70,000 from the fraud, the court heard. Shortman said it had become addictive, and admitted occasionally becoming aggressive towards people. In addition to admitting the 21 charges, he also asked for 63 similar offences to be taken into consideration. The total amount of money he admitted obtaining was £45,875. The judge ordered the forfeiture of £615 - the only cash Shortman has left after his spending spree - as well as other items belonging to him under the Proceeds of Crime Act.Mr Jones said Shortman had gravitated towards the scam after leaving school. "Not being able to hold down a job, he turned to legitimate trading on the internet, which then became very illegitimate and criminal," he said. "It is clear that he knew his ongoing activities would be traced back to him. Bank accounts were in his name, and he traded in his own name at times. He cannot give an explanation - he became addicted to it." Mr Jones said there had been a "sea change" in Shortman's attitude over recent months since his marriage, and that he had a "relish for fatherhood".