Sorry, some will consider this to be stale buns, as we used to say at school in prehistoric times, but it's only had a nib in the Guardian, and that doesn't do justice to its possible status as a performance artwork.One of the Guardian Northerner's many mottoes is Better Late than Never; and I've been so busy inputting guest posts on the blog (for which boundless thanks) that I haven't had time to echo King Edward VIII: at last I can say a few words of my own.They are about Mark Roberts. Remember him? The self-proclaimed artist who skipped on to the stage at the Turner Prize ceremony in Gateshead in a pink tutu and nothing else. He had 'Study this' scrawled in felt-tip on his ample chest. You can relive the moment on the post which the Northerner ran at the time, here, complete with film.The clip has now had a wider audience, at Gateshead magistrates court, where Roberts denied causing alarm, distress or harassment under section five of the Public Order Act. The Turner Prize's distinguished presenter Mario Testino, who was just starting on his speech at the time, took the intervention in good part, ad-libbing: "Art is everywhere." But witnesses claimed to have seen Roberts' genitals and that triggered the machinery of the law.So to court; and the magistrates heard first from James Johnson, head of building services at the Baltic gallery where the event was held:I was on the right hand side of the stage, about ten rows from the front. I could see unusual movement going on at the front, slightly right of the main presenter.The door supervisor moved towards the front of the stage and that's when I saw the gentleman being taken down to the ground. He was wearing a pink tutu and nothing else, with his genitals exposed.As the gentleman was taken out, I looked back into the audience. There was people with shock on their faces who were alarmed and shaking their heads in disgust.Four or five children were in the 260-strong audience when 47-year-old Roberts appeared, he added, although none appeared in the film clip shown to the court:I'm a family man, there were children present if I hadn't been working my children could have been there. I was shocked, I found it quite disgusting, you don't expect this to happen anywhere.Laurence Lee, defending Roberts, then cross-examined him:At the Turner Awards, the most controversial awards in the whole world, you were shocked by male nudity?"Johnson:I'm not here to comment on art...I do not go to work and expect to have male nudity thrust on me.PC Joanna Breen of Northumbria police was next, explaining how she and a colleague had 'held' Roberts, as we journalists say:Apart from a pink tutu he was completely naked when we saw him in the holding room. The tutu was made of mesh material so we could see straight through it.She described how Roberts, who lives in Anfield, Liverpool, and has a long streaking record, continued his performance during the subsequent police interview. After repeating Testino's dictum "Art is everywhere', he was asked how he got in:I rowed up the town on a banana boat and bought a ticket off a man selling kebabs whilst juggling monkeys.I'm a performance artist mixed with street art and contemporary art. I usually take my clothes off and run around and act daft.I've performed in stadiums around the world for eight years. Today was the 501st event. I came here to perform at the Turner Awards. I nearly won it tonight. Hopefully I'll be nominated next year.I've performed in front of 60, 70, 80 thousand people and never been booed and I certainly wasn't booed tonight.To everyone's satisfaction, Roberts appeared in court to add to this and told the magistrates:I had been reading up on the Turner Prize which is really controversial art work. All the audience were critics and artists which is why I had written 'Study This!' on my chest.I was dressed as a ballerina who are full of poise and grace and the Turner Prize is all about opposites. I'm a middle aged man with a bit of a beer belly and I was aiming for the art critics to deem what I'm doing as a piece of art.Everyone was laughing, clapping and cheering. One of the security guards shook my hand and the other gave me a high five.He said that he was 100% sure that no children were present, and then stepped down in favour of his solicitor, Lee, who summed up:All he wants to do is bring a little bit of happiness to people's lives. All you hear about in the news are bombings and killings and robberies and it's a breath of fresh air.He didn't want to cause insult, he wanted to cause a little bit of levity in this miserable world.The magistrates retired, conferred, returned and dismissed the charge. The chairman of the bench, Ray Ashley, ruled: We do not accept that Mr Johnson himself was alarmed, distressed or harrassed. We therefore dismiss the charge against Mr Roberts.Turning to Roberts: We want to make the point, however, that although we do not find a criminal offence has been committed, we do not condone your behaviour.There it is, completing the artwork. Should it be framed?