Nick Davies's excellent analysis of police woes may be applied equally to just about every other public service in this country (The war on crime, July 10-12). All of them are crippled by the twin terrors of the Blair control system: local service fragmentation and incoherent diktat from London.The system of government targets, inspections and interventions looks rational on the surface, which is why they have got away with it for so long. But in reality it is completely barmy. It is true that local service delivery has always been fragmented, with major players - police, health, employment - run by appointed quangos. But Blair control has made things far worse. Now even individual council services are sent hareing off in different and often contradictory directions by different, all-controlling government departments, which don't talk to each other. This mess has been further compounded by local - but government-imposed - partnerships", whose purpose is to give the appearance of local influence where none exists. I was council leader in Bristol for the first five years of the Blair government. Long before the end of my term, I had concluded that I was wasting my time. George Micklewright Bristol Yes, a minority of problem drug users commit a huge volume of crime compared with other sections of the community, but drug users do not drive crime in the way Nick Davies implies. The overwhelming majority of all crime - from tax evasion to road-traffic offences, from murder to corporate crime - will be committed by people who are not problematic users - and the majority of it, incidentally, by people who are not necessarily socially excluded. Often, the truth is that the experience of exclusion and marginalisation is driving both the drug problem and the crime problem - and, indeed, that problematic drug users are likely to be the invisible victims of crime as often as they are its invisible perpetrators. Frank Warburton  Director, DrugScope Nick Davies claims that the apparent fall in crime is merely a fall in statistics, which seriously underestimates the crime rate (Exploding the myth of the falling crime rate, July 10). But the same factors that led to the underestimate also operated before the decline and there is no reason to suppose that they distort figures now more than they did then. The fall in the crime rate, therefore, is likely to be genuine, and not a myth. Prof Maurice Line Harrogate, N Yorks 