The new director general of the prison service yesterday placed himself on a collision course with David Blunkett when he warned the government against encouraging long sentences and blamed the recent spate of suicides among inmates partly on overcrowding.In a direct challenge to central elements of the home secretary's criminal justice reforms, Phil Wheatley declared that prisons should not be "lightly used" because they are "not the answer" to crime. Mr Wheatley's extraordinary comment that overcrowding was one factor behind the record increase in suicides is likely to be welcomed by members of the judiciary, who have warned that Mr Blunkett's reforms will swell the prison population yet further. With prison numbers in England and Wales at a record high of 74,000, Mr Wheatley told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost: "We are one of the ways that the country deals with crime. People ... think sometimes for serious offences that nothing other than prison would do. "But it's important we don't overuse it [prison]. It's expensive, it is disruptive to the loved ones of those who come inside, often entirely innocent families and children who find that their whole life has to change as a result, it's a difficult experience to get through. It shouldn't be lightly used." Mr Wheatley made clear that the prison service was close to breaking point. Asked why a record 105 inmates took their lives last year, he said: "It is difficult to work that out. Some of that is because of overcrowding." But he said that it was only part of the problem, as he underlined the prisons crisis in England and Wales. "It is not so much the overcrowding, it is just the sheer pressure of numbers, which means that we are moving people into a local prison from the courts, then moving them out very quickly, with staff not having sufficient time to try to understand the individual needs of individual prisoners ... Most of the suicide problems do relate to that period immediately after coming into prison." Mr Wheatley's remarks were seized on by Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, who said that they highlighted the need for more prison places, even though the government had pledged to build more prisons. "The government appears to have no solution in hand," he said. "Mr Wheatley appears to be indicating that the 'quick fix' will be yet further reductions in effective sentencing through early release and other such schemes. "Once again, this is the tail of prison overcrowding wagging the dog of sentencing policy. There is no point in ministers talking tough about sentencing if they are in practice failing to provide sufficient prison places." Prison reform groups welcomed Mr Wheatley's frank language. Frances Crook, director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, said: "There are definitely people who are killing themselves in prison who would still be alive today if conditions were a little better." Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest, a group campaigning against deaths in custody, agreed with Mr Wheatley that there were many factors behind prison suicides. "It is simplistic and too easy to blame suicides just on overcrowding. A lot of people are being sent to prison who have got serious mental health, alcohol or drug problems who really should be transferred out of prison."