Errol Christie will always remember 5 November 1985. His arrival in the ring at Wembley Arena to fight Mark Kaylor in a final eliminator for the British middleweight title was greeted by a prolonged volley of abuse. It came from what an editorial in Boxing News had called "the extreme rightwing fascist element in Britain, an element which is represented in Kaylor's home territory of West Ham".As part of a large black family, Christie had all too literally fought his way out of an estate in Coventry where almost every other resident was white, and Kaylor's fanbase represented everything he despised. They were, as he writes in his recently published autobiography, No Place to Hide, "the sort of men who had chased me home from school every day of every week from as early as I could remember". A glittering amateur boxing career had led him to be crowned European champion and captain of England – a country that his neighbours were constantly telling him he had no right to be in, let alone represent.There were calls to the minister of sport, Richard Tracey, to ban the fight on fireworks night on the grounds that it was too racially charged. Certainly tensions were running high in the inner cities and estates. Only three days before a brawl disfigured the pre-fight photoshoot – where the two fighters traded insults and then punches – PC Keith Blakelock had been hacked to death on Tottenham's Broadwater Farm estate during riots in north London. Less than two months earlier, riots had erupted in Handsworth, Birmingham.Almost 25 years on, Christie, 46, can look back on those turbulent times with a shrug rather than a shudder. Yes, he eventually lost that titanic struggle with Kaylor. And, yes, he lost just about everything else as the most cruel of professional sports took its toll on his body, and the financial crash of 1987 took away his home in Dulwich. Today he lives in a less affluent part of south London and earns his living teaching white-collar professionals how to box. But he devotes much of his spare time to talking about issues of discipline and self-respect in schools and community centres across the country."My [six] brothers and me were never given any respect when we were growing up," he says. "We had to earn it with our fists. Yes, there were knives on the streets, but nothing like as many as today. And there certainly weren't the guns."Britain is "less bigoted" than it was in his youth, he concedes, and in London, the big cities and even smaller ones such as Coventry, there is far more mingling between different races. "People don't make racist comments to your face much any more," he reflects. "But I learned from an early age to study body language and look into people's eyes; it's still there."National FrontNot surprisingly, he worried about growing support for the British National party. Christie has never forgotten National Front supporters from all over the country arriving in his home city in 1981 to confront a demonstration organised by the Coventry Committee Against Racism. He heard chants of "Sieg heil!" repeated endlessly in a city centre that had been largely reduced to rubble by the Luftwaffe just over 40 years earlier."But what depresses me now is that, in the face of a new racist menace, many of our [black] youth spend more time shooting and knifing each other, playing into the hands of our enemies," he says. "I sometimes say that the fascists don't have to bother any more because we'll do the killing for them, damage ourselves first. And it's over who has the best 'bling' or who didn't show enough 'respect'."We're talking in a coffee bar over the road from Gymbox in central London where he is due to give a lunchtime session to clients who will pay between £40 and £60 an hour to be taught how to jab and cross. That is on top of their monthly membership fees of around £68 a month. His students have included X-Factor presenter Dermot O'Leary, former Chelsea player-manager Gianluca Vialli and journalist Tony McMahon, ghost writer of his book."I love this place," says Christie as we descend into a cavernous basement. "It's like a palace to me. You could fit the old Standard-Triumph gym, where I started, into here about four times." That small and sweaty bolt-hole in Coventry was an escape route – a place where he could work out his frustrations, nurture his dreams and polish the skills necessary to realise them. His trainer was a one-time shop steward called Tom McGarry, the first white man to offer him warmth and friendship."All the car factories had gyms in those days," Christie remembers. "But when the factories closed down, the sporting facilities went with them. You don't find many gyms attached to call centres," he adds ruefully. He is acutely conscious that there are plenty of youngsters out there for whom the fees at the Gymbox "palace" would be a king's ransom. At the same time, he believes that they would benefit greatly from the discipline that comes from fighting under boxing's Queensbury rules.His first visit to a community college in Hackney came at the invitation of the deputy principal. Many more would follow from schools and colleges all over the country. And he accepted them all, despite that first experience being even more forbidding than his brief foray into after-dinner speaking and the black comedy circuit at the end of the 80s. By his own admission, he "bombed" and, for a while, it looked as though the same fate might befall him at the Hackney college.Sullen teenagers"I had to go through some kind of airport security system and then talk to rows of hooded, sullen teenagers who didn't know who the hell I was," he recalls. "It was infinitely more terrifying than boxing in front of 10,000 at the Wembley Arena." Only when he began to talk about the random acts of violence visited upon him by his illiterate, schizophrenic father did he begin to grab their attention. Whether or not they took notice of his pleas to concentrate on education rather than altercation is open to question. Not long after he gave that speech, a student was stabbed to death for "looking at another youth the wrong way".Undeterred, the former boxer has travelled from Croydon to Newcastle to deliver a similar message in schools and boxing clubs. McMahon travels with him, sharing as he does Christie's view that boxing is the best way for aggressive young men to sort out their differences and that education offers the way out of poverty.Christie's star is on the rise again a quarter of a century after he crawled off the Wembley canvas, isolated and humiliated by the baying celebrations of Kaylor's fans. Apart from the book, a UK producer has taken an option on a film about his life alongside that of Neville Staple of the Specials and Pauline Black of the Selecter, set in Coventry in the early 80s. Meanwhile, Christie has been engaged as adviser and fight-choreographer for the Royal Court theatre's play Sucker Punch, which opens next month and looks back on what it was like to be young and black in the 80s.But a man who has taken more punches than most doesn't seem in any hurry to forget those, like him, who know what it's like to face the daily struggle for survival on the streets.No Place to Hide by Errol Christie (with Tony McMahon) is published by Aurum, £16.99. Order a copy for £13.99 (including UK mainland p&p) at theguardian.com/ bookshop or call 0330 333 6846.Curriculum vitaeAge 46.Lives South London.Status Separated; one son, aged 21.Education Left President Kennedy school, Coventry, in 1979 with seven CSEs, "including a top grade in RE". Diploma in personal training (2004).Career: 2010-present: adviser and fight choreographer on Sucker Punch, Royal Court Theatre; 1999-present: white-collar boxing trainer, Gymbox and previously the Real Fight Club; 1993-99: market trader, south London; 1983-93: professional boxer and occasional nightclub doorman; as well as (briefly) stand-up comedian on black comedy circuit; 1979-83: mechanic, Coventry Clutch Centre; and amateur boxer, captaining England team and winning European ABA middleweight title.Public life 2006 to present: speaker in schools and community centres.Interests Soul music (particularly James Brown), running.