Tony Martin, the Norfolk farmer who shot dead a 16-year-old burglar, is not going to be short of friends on his release from prison. The tabloids are fighting with each other over the exclusive right to tell his story. Joe Public does not like the victims of crime being prosecuted for their retaliation. Even worse, they do not like burglary victims like Mr Martin, being sued for damages by another of the burglars who was shot in the leg.The farmer is already reported to be intent on becoming a crime victims' champion. Will politicians be able to resist his call? In April 2000, William Hague, who was then Tory leader, used the Martin case to indict the criminal justice system for punishing victims not criminals. Will Iain Duncan Smith follow suit? Before the show gathers further momentum, here are some facts to calm pub justice. The current law already provides substantial protection to people who inflict harm or kill while defending themselves, their property, or other people. Only if the prosecution is able to show the force used is unreasonable, will victims be liable. This is in line with the central principles of the criminal justice system, which is there to replace lynch law and blood feuds. The jury who heard the Martin case, were advised by the judge they could return a manslaughter verdict, rather than murder, if they found the farmer "did not intend to kill or cause serious bodily harm". They decided his actions went beyond appropriate self-defence: he waited with a loaded unlicensed shotgun in his remote darkened farmhouse; fired into the back of Fred Barras, the 16-year-old, which suggests he was running away. He was convicted of murder and would have had to have served a life sentence, but for the intervention of the appeal court that reduced the charge to manslaughter, after evidence suggesting he was suffering from a paranoid personality disorder. This is just another reason why life sentences should be the maximum, rather than the mandatory sentence for murder. It would allow judges to be more lenient where there were special reasons, like an excessive response to a personal threat, but until now the reform, which has been backed by five advisory groups, has not won tabloid support. Public protests over compensation claims brought against Mr Martin by Brendon Fearon, one of the burglars who was shot in the leg, is understandable. The civil law under which this claim is being made is currently being reviewed by the Law Commission. In an age when the government emphasises both "rights and responsibilities", stand by for some change to both the civil law and the legal aid system which is financing the claim. There will also be calls for stiffer sentences for burglars. But these are already in force. Under the "three strikes and you're out" law steered through parliament by Michael Howard and implemented by Jack Straw in 1999, persistent burglars (three or more offences) must serve three years before parole. The reason why Mr Martin served two-thirds, rather than one third of his sentence, was his refusal to recognise his guilt. Burglary is a serious offence, but not even Norfolk farm watch suggests it deserves a death sentence. But Mr Martin has a right to feel rueful, when he looks at Jeffrey Archer's release and the Archer family's campaign to reverse the writer's conviction.The farmer also needs protection, not just from revenge attacks, but from the many different groups which want to exploit him. It is difficult enough leaving prison, without being seen by some vigilante groups, as a perfect icon for their cause.