Recently, I was in one of my weekly surgeries giving advice to local constituents when a man who was in a state of some distress leaned down to get something out of a holdall. I began to panic.It might be irrational, but since Jo Cox was murdered I have this feeling frequently. This week a local church called about my annual address at the Christmas carol concert. Every year I do a reading, never before have they called and asked me if they need to arrange a discreet police presence for my safety.In reality, if I were to undergo a risk assessment every day, my threat level is probably no more than it ever was. I comfort myself that the still unbelievable tragedy was a freak incident. Yet I still cannot shake the feeling that in our country – and across the world – there is a rising tide of hate that mean events such as Jo’s murder are more likely.Thomas Mair, who has been jailed for life for Jo’s murder, had an obsession with far-right ideologies that has been laid bare in his trial. Jo had received online hate messages from far-right groups prior to her murder. I’ve had similar messages. The group who attack me the most online are without question those who would identify with the “alt-right”.'Terrorist' Thomas Mair jailed for life for Jo Cox murder Every time I speak up about anything to do with women or ethnic minorities, hundreds of messages pour in to attempt to silence or frighten me. I have no doubt that the internet is being used to radicalise angry white men across the world, just as we have seen it used to radicalise angry Muslim men. Mair is a warning to us all that this radicalisation is as dangerous and violent as Islamic fundamentalism.Jo’s death has brought about so many emotions. Grief and disbelief remain a part of the daily lives of those of us who knew and loved her. However, for me and for many of my colleagues in Westminster – particularly female MPs – fear has also become real and present. I am scared that what I might say or do will make me a target. I wish I weren’t, but I am.This week I wrote an article about the far right and specifically about Stephen Bannon of Breitbart. It took me two days to have the courage to publish it and speak my mind. Criticising Bannon used to be run of the mill, but his newly legitimised status as a White House official, along with pictures of Jo staring back at me from newspapers discarded on the bus, were reminders that I take a risk when I speak up. So far, this has been nothing worse than weeks of aggressive and online threats of violence. For Jo, her beliefs and her courage to air them cost her her life.Regardless of how people love to deride politicians, democracy is not an easy gig. My decisions, views and heartfelt principles are dismissed by so many as careerist, opportunist or attention-seeking. I cannot think or do anything without my motives being called into question. It is right and proper that I should seek opinion on how I vote, that I should gauge the feeling of my constituents (who, incidentally, are the most respectful and decent of all those who get in touch demanding I listen to them). Pressure and protest is fine, but using fear and threats to force politicians to sing to a certain tune will be the death of our democracy.During the vote on UK airstrikes in Syria, fear and aggression became the overriding tool of so-called campaigners. Threats and images of death and destruction rained down on politicians in every quarter. This does not help us to make our decisions; it makes us scared when we have made them. During the Labour leadership election there were lots of threats about my job – “Do what we want or we are coming to get you.” This is not democratic – it’s despotic.Online hatred and abuse are bubbling over to a dangerous point. The article 50 vote in parliament will breathe new life into the with-us-or-against-us trend that is damaging politics today. But life is more complicated than the simplicity presented by a binary choice. People with power and money will declare that we must drain the swamp of parliament. But they forget that using fear and threats will kill our democracy.People who say “I hate politicians, you’re all the same” will soon have to face the fact that all politicians do say the same thing – the thing that keeps them safe.