Two accomplices who helped shotgun killer Raoul Moat during his murderous rampage last summer have been jailed for life with minimum terms of 40 years and 20 years before they are eligible for release.The longer sentence was given to Karl Ness, 26, who was convicted of the murder of a karate instructor who was shot and killed by Moat in July 2010.His co-defendant, Qhuram Awan, 23, was given life with a 20-year tariff for conspiracy to murder, attempted murder, and robbery of a chip shop, following a five-week trial at Newcastle crown court.Ness was with Moat on the night he shot his ex-girlfriend Samantha Stobbart and killed her new boyfriend, Chris Brown – who he wrongly believed was a serving police officer – last July. He was convicted of murdering Brown and a firearms offence, even though he didn't pull the trigger.Both men were convicted of conspiracy to murder, attempted murder and robbing a chip shop that Moat held up the day after he shot and blinded unarmed police officer PC David Rathband.Mr Justice McCombe said: "Here is a case where three men formulated a plan to murder policemen indiscriminately, and then, pursuant to the plan, attempted (to within the thinnest thread of human life) to kill one officer, with appalling consequences." There was no reaction from Ness as he was sentenced. Awan smiled ruefully to his father in the public gallery as he was led away.Earlier, Rathband, the police officer blinded by Moat, had wept as the details of his injuries were outlined to the judge.The trial heard that Moat was intent on exacting revenge when he heard Stobbart had a new partner. Moat asked his friend Ness to spy on her while he was still in prison. The day after his release, the pair went looking for her and her boyfriend, Brown, 29. Moat murdered Brown and shot and seriously injured Stobbart, 22, before fleeing.Moat, a former bouncer and steroid user, was convinced Brown was a police officer, and he phoned Northumbria police to declare "war" on the force.Awan drove Ness and Moat in his black Lexus car when they chanced upon a parked police patrol car. Inside was Rathband, a 43-year-old father of two. Awan stopped and Moat crept up on the unarmed officer before twice shooting him at close range. He survived but was blinded.They later helped Moat set up a woodland camp near Rothbury, Northumberland, and went shopping for supplies for him. Although they claimed to have been held hostage, neither man alerted the authorities during these trips away from Moat.In CCTV images both men could be seen calmly browsing in shops for food or clothes. When they were arrested on the edge of the village, Moat managed to escape. The killer remained at large for another three days until he was cornered and shot himself following a six-hour standoff. He was also shot with a Taser that had not undergone proper testing.Paul Sloan QC, defending Ness, said: "Had it not been for Moat, none of these offences would have been committed." Jeremy Carter-Manning, defending Awan, also referred to the missing killer, saying: "This trial is Hamlet without the prince." He said psychiatric tests showed his client was "easily led".The hunt for Moat led to a Tornado fighter jet, normally used on covert missions in Afghanistan, being brought in to scour the area at dusk as hundreds of officers searched the countryside and woodland. Survival expert Ray Mears was brought in to advise officers after an abandoned campsite was discovered on the edge of the village. The search, costing £1.4m, was one of the biggest police operations in the UK.The fugitive's ability to keep one step ahead of the police for a week fuelled public interest in the investigation, putting pressure on detectives who knew how dangerous Moat could be.He had a history of violence and was involved in at least two road rage incidents. He regularly beat his girlfriend and was jailed for assaulting a child.For a time, the police ordered a news blackout as they thought they were dealing with a hostage situation while Moat was on the run. Yet the pair were willing participants.Outside court, Rathband branded the two conspirators "evil" and Moat a coward.Detective superintendent Jim Napier, of Northumbria police, said he welcomed the sentences, which reflected the severity of the crimes they were involved in."Both men now have a long time in which to reflect on their cowardly actions, which left one man dead, two people seriously injured and countless others traumatised," Napier said."Throughout that week last July, both men had numerous opportunities to stop these unfolding events and prevent people being killed and injured."However, he added, neither had taken any responsibility for their actions.