Dr Freddy Patel, the former Home Office pathologist suspended for incompetence in a series of high profile autopsies, has been found guilty of misconduct after failing to spot that a murder victim had been suffocated.The 63-year-old forensic examiner may now be now struck off the medical register.A disciplinary panel of the General Medical Council ruled that his "fitness to practise was impaired" because of his reluctance to consider asphyxiation in the murder case, the falsification of his professional CV, and his failure to redress previous professional shortcomings.Over the last 18 months, Patel's work has come under intense scrutiny. He has been criticised for suggesting the newspaper seller Ian Tomlinson died of natural causes during the G20 protests in 2009.Last summer, Patel was suspended from practising for three months after the GMC found him guilty of misconduct or "deficient professional performance" in other cases. A disciplinary panel banned him in effect from carrying out postmortem examinations on suspicious deaths.In its latest findings, the GMC told Patel that his clinical approach was not "sufficiently in line with the required standard of a competent pathologist".In relation to his inaccurate CV, it said he had "acted in a way that was dishonest and liable to bring the profession into disrepute" and that the failings were "deliberate rather than inadvertent".Earlier this week, the GMC found that Patel's 2002 reports on the death of Sally White – the first victim of Anthony Hardy, the "Camden Ripper" – were "irresponsible, not of the standard expected of a competent forensic pathologist and liable to bring the medical profession into disrepute". Patel decided that White, a 31-year-old sex worker, had died of natural causes despite blood staining on her clothing, bedding and on a wall in a locked room in Hardy's north London flat. Patel concluded she had died from a heart attack during consensual sex.His reports on White discouraged a police investigation that might have saved two other women, the GMC panel was told. Because he had ruled out murder, there was in effect "no crime to investigate".Hardy was given three life sentences in November 2003 for the murders of three women, including White. A judge said he had committed the crimes to "satisfy his depraved and perverted needs".The GMC ruled that Patel made a string of errors and failed to consider fully the circumstances of White's death. He failed to comment on whether a blunt force injury that caused a large gash to White's head might have knocked her unconscious.In its comments about the White postmortem, the GMC told Patel: "You repeatedly demonstrated an inflexible approach in relation to your conclusions as to the cause of death … you failed to consider, when reaching your conclusions, the location and circumstances of the discovery of [the] body, the presence of blood on … clothing and bedding, and the possibility that [she] was asphyxiated." His consideration of the possibility of asphyxia was dismissed as "superficial".In earlier cases brought before the GMC, the panel criticised Patel's failure to identify visible injuries on a child's body. It said he had performed "only a cursory external examination of the body" and adopted an "incurious approach". Patel had also been censured by a GMC disciplinary panel as far back as 2002 for breaching patient confidentiality.The inquest on Tomlinson is due to start later this month. Patel was the first pathologist to examine his body and concluded that he had suffered a heart attack. That finding was challenged by the family after video footage revealed that Tomlinson had been struck and shoved to the ground by riot police during protests in the City of London in April 2009. 'We do blame Patel,' says mother of murdered daughterJackie Valad believes her daughter, Elizabeth, would be alive but for the incompetence of Freddy Patel, and she is calling for him to be struck off the medical register. Patel has been found guilty of misconduct for failing to identify that the first victim of Anthony Hardy, known as the "Camden Ripper", had been suffocated.Hardy was not initially charged with the murder of Sally White, who was a sex worker, even though her naked body was found in his flat in 2002 with a head wound and a bite mark on her thigh. Patel's report found she had died of natural causes. Hardy was sectioned but released later that year. He went on to kill and cut up the bodies of sex workers Elizabeth Valad, 29, and Bridgette Maclennan, 34."Had Dr Patel done his job properly, then I'm sure my daughter would still be alive," said Valad. "I would like to see him struck off … The first girl, Sally White, was found in his flat. Neighbours heard noise, the police went round and her body was in a room."But Patel said she died of natural causes, even though she had gashes on her head and marks on her body. He found that so many people had died of natural causes. It beggars belief that he was allowed to practise. We do blame Freddy Patel. He didn't murder Elizabeth … but he was a major part of Elizabeth losing her life."