No doubt we will soon be told how the Commission for Racial Equality reacts to the idea of "fast tracking" black and Asian recruits into the Metropolitan police training schools. I am enthusiastically in favour. But then, I have long held the view that the objects of the CRE can only be achieved by "positive discrimination" - or, to give the policy its less controversial name, "affirmative action". If we wait for the gradual evolution of society into a prejudice-free utopia, ethnic minorities will never get their fair share of anything - including members of the police service. And police numbers are important. A wholly, or even almost exclusively, white police force does not look as though it belongs to the whole community.Imposing quotas on police recruitment - which is what the policy amounts to - would certainly carry tremendous risks, especially for those Asian and African-Caribbean officers who were elevated to the top of the training list. Every day of their lives they would be required to prove that they were up to the job - not just appointed because their colour transcended awkward questions about efficiency. Even then, they would be treated, far too often, like gatecrashers who had sneaked in through the back door. But there will be men and women with enough guts to stick it out. The government would be crazy to deny them the opportunity.So we wait to see if David Blunkett will revise the well-intentioned law that prohibits employment discrimination, on grounds of race, whatever the reason. Presumably, Trevor Phillips, the CRE chairman, will offer his advice. Let us hope that it is made public. For it will help ethnic minorities to understand what he meant when he expressed his doubts about the promotion of "multiracialism" - a term so vague that it can be defined to meet an infinity of principles and prejudices. Does monoculturalism require us to tell black boys not to notice the colour of the officers who walk their beats? And will it, one day, prevent those officers from stopping a higher proportion of black drivers than white? If the Metropolitan police is to meet the admirable aim of creating a force in which 25% of the officers are recruited from ethnic minorities, it will have to test Phillips's theory to destruction. African-Caribbeans - most of whom are English-speaking Christians - will fit in easily enough. But will Muslims have their shift patterns altered to meet the special needs of Ramadan? Or would that be pandering to the multiculturalism that Phillips deplores? The 25% target - despite the noble ambition it represents - is built on one of the miscalculations that bedevils race relations policy. There is no such thing as the "ethnic minority community". The black and Asian British are united by only one aspect of their lives: the likelihood that they will become victims of prejudice and discrimination. It is patronising, as well as ignorant, to speak as if a young man whose grandfather was born in Kashmir has the same cultural and religious instincts as his neighbour whose grandfather was born in Kingston, Jamaica. It is the dissimilar - the Sikhs, Muslims and Hindus - who need and are entitled to expect the acceptance of "multiculturalism". Their cultures and their religions cannot be separated. If their social mores are suppressed by official regulation or the pressure of public opinion, they are denied the freedom of worship that is an essential part of civic liberty. A country which, in effect, told British Muslims "you can live here in peace and prosperity, as long as you behave like English Christians" would be a tyranny. That means that we - the white, culturally Christian English - have to accept, from time to time, that some of our neighbours behave in a way of which we disapprove. The insistence that they become more like us is essentially the demand of a ruling class. When did the English, in colonial India, feel an obligation to behave like what they called "the natives"? Opposition to "multiculturalism" is only one step away from asking: "Whose country is it anyway?" And we know the sort of people who parrot that question. It goes without saying that every community must respect the laws of the land - though the Koran actually says it. We are all more likely to obey that stern injunction if we feel that the law respects us. White critics of the attempt to "fast track" black and Asian police recruits ought to imagine how they would respond to a force which, almost entirely, consisted of black officers. They might well ask: "Whose country is it anyway?" I want it to belong to families with roots in the new Commonwealth as well as to the culturally, emotionally and visibly English. comment@theguardian.com