A charity aimed at teaching children about personal safety was launched yesterday during a service of thanksgiving for the life of Milly Dowler.Relatives and friends who had packed Guildford cathedral were told Milly's Fund would be a lasting memorial to the murdered Surrey schoolgirl. Milly's father, Bob, and her best friend, Hannah MacDonald, were among those who paid tribute to the 13-year-old, who was abducted as she walked home in March. The saxophone group at her school, of which she had been a talented member, played two of her favourite numbers, while her uncle, Peter, sang You'll Never Walk Alone. There were tears as a family friend recalled a girl who would have made a "real mark" on the world. But the Bishop of Dorking, the Right Reverend Ian Brackley, said he was encouraged by the decision of Milly's mother Sally, a teacher, to set up the charity. He said: "Responsible and sensible education in this sphere is vital for distinguishing situations of risk from normal social intercourse between adults and youngsters". The bishop warned against people becoming overly suspicious of one another. He said: "It would be a victory for those forces of darkness that infest the minds of thankfully a tiny minority of the human race that wishes to harm, abuse or exploit our children if we overreacted by becoming too protective of our young people." All 1,200 seats were taken in the modern cathedral, where a thanksgiving service for the murdered schoolgirl Sarah Payne was held two years ago. It was a colourful scene as many of Milly's contemporaries wore bright rather than sombre outfits. Detective Chief Superintendent Craig Denholm, who is leading the murder hunt, and the chief constable of Surrey, Denis O'Connor, sat just behind the Dowlers. The service began with a message of thanks from the Dowlers to everyone who had supported them, and to the couple who found Milly's remains while mushroom hunting in woods near Fleet in Hampshire last month. Milly's best friend, Hannah, read a poem which included the lines: "I had found, now lost my friend/Someone has taken you from my life/When will this nightmare end?" Lindsay Dobson, a family friend, recalled how as a young girl Milly would dance and sing songs from musicals and ask "impossible questions". Mrs Dobson sobbed when she spoke of video footage of Milly ironing which was released during the police appeal for information, and remembered the "smile on her face that comes from her eyes". Milly's father Bob, an IT consultant, described his daughter as an "independent spirit" whose first words were: "Me do it". He said his wife would miss Milly calling her "lovely mummy", while he would miss asking his daughter where his 60s CDs were. Mr Dowler concluded: "We are so grateful Milly was able to pack so much into 13 happy, healthy years and bring us so much happiness and that she was able to realise at least some of her potential."