The young man in blue overalls and yellow bib shovelling clay with gusto from a hole in the road attracts little attention from passing drivers and pedestrians. If anything, they are irked at having to negotiate the temporary barriers that have sprung up earlier in the morning to protect Dean and his workmates from the traffic.But the government is paying close attention to the working lives, not just of 20-year-old Dean, but of scores of other men doing similar jobs with the gas mains.The result is a new approach to rehabilitating offenders that ministers believe will dramatically slash recidivism, which currently costs an estimated £11bn a year.A green paper due to be published on Thursday is expected to propose that getting offenders into jobs becomes a key purpose of prison.The paper, produced jointly by the Home Office, Department for Education and Skills and the Department for Work and Pensions, is likely to recommend a major extension of a programme developed by the energy company, National Grid, which is recording a reoffending rate of just 7% among the former prisoners it employs."This compares favourably with national reoffending rates of more than 70% among young offenders," says Dr Mary Harris, a physicist and engineer, who founded and runs the National Grid offender training and employment programme. Mouldering behind barsFour years ago Dean, sporting 11 respectable GCSEs, crashed his life. He was uprooted from his sixth form and sent to jail for four years for conspiracy to rob. Provided he kept his nose clean, he would be out after two years. For the next 20 months, he effectively mouldered behind bars, he says. Then he was transferred to a resettlement unit at Reading prison."It was the first place there was something worthwhile to do," he says. There was a chance, he was told, of getting on to a special programme that trained prisoners nearing the end of their sentences and guaranteed a job at the end of the training. Furthermore the training took place on the job - outside the prison.The employer was National Grid Transco - as the company was then branded - and it was made clear to Dean, and other interested prisoners in the resettlement unit, that the work would be of a heavy, manual nature."Somebody from Transco came to the prison and showed us videos and explained what the job was about," Dean recalls. There were vacancies on offer for training to become gas network operatives - "digging and fixing leaks", he explains."I'd been in for about 20 months and there was nothing in prison I could sit down and get stuck into. I like being outside and I like manual work."It was also made clear that the prison governor would decide which prisoners showing interest in the Transco offer would be granted release on temporary licence, enabling them to go out of the prison during the day to take up the offer.That is a critical decision, not just for the individual prisoner, but for the governor, says Harris. "If there is a problem - someone absconding, for instance - it's very serious and it's career damaging for the governor. The governor's career is on the line when he lets people out of the prison."Those wanting to take up the offer of training and a job were going to have to go through an interview, in which they would be competing against not only one another, but also applicants outside the prison. "We only recruit people on a competitive basis - there are no favours done," says Harris. Job appealThere was understandable interest in the offer and more wanting to apply than there were training places. "In other prisons there is the chance of doing basic training, typically mechanics, painting or brickwork, but there's no job at the end of it."When you go with Transco you are in a real-life situation," says Dean. "Working for Transco means working out of the prison every single day, which is what everybody in prison wants; but they can tell if someone just wants to get outside. They give you a fairly tough interview."Having satisfied this risk assessment process by prison staff, Dean was eligible for the job interview."This was daunting. I hadn't had one for a good while so I was a bit nervous. I'd had a job interview for McDonalds before I went into prison - that was a lot easier."Dean sailed through and went on to complete his 13-week gas network operative NVQ level 1 course. His licence allowed him out of the prison for 12 hours from 6.30am to 6.30pm. Training, and subsequently work, spanned from 8am to 5pm. Sometimes this happened in Slough, sometimes in Reading.There was only one panic, on the day that a bomb scare closed Reading station and there were no trains going back there. He contacted the prison and it sent a taxi to pick him up.Training ended two weeks before Dean's sentence, but this did not prevent him starting work. For the first fortnight of his new career he simply went back to prison each evening.He says the scheme has transformed his rehabilitation prospects. "It took out the whole problem of finding a job. For somebody with a criminal record it's very hard to get work. And I've never been used to earning this sort of money - I want to work more."Money is a key factor. When Harris started developing the programme in the late 1990s, she spent a lot of time talking to prisoners about what they wanted. "They wanted something with a salary of about £16,000. That's the sort of money which would stop them doing what they were doing before."They wanted a portable qualification that would enable them to move around and they wanted something which would enable them to get a qualification in a relatively short time."They wanted a fairly macho job and one that wasn't short term."National Grid, in its turn, wants a good economic return. It wants motivated people who will want to stay with the company and can hack hard physical work, which means, says Harris, it is not looking at offenders who are likely to get jobs easily when they leave jail."For this to work, the training has to be done by the employer. It can't be done by a third party. And you have to mentor people, before and after release, 24/7." The ex-offenders are mentored for a year and the company ensures they get reliable accommodation for themselves.Among a raft of measures, Thursday's green paper is expected to propose that prisoners' training is recorded on a computerised network that will prevent them having to start all over again every time they move between jails. Individual offenders could sign a contract to complete a training programme as part of their sentence, in return for a guaranteed job.Education of prisoners will be brought closer into line with mainstream post-16 education, funded and overseen by the Learning and Skills Council regionally.Ministers want a concerted effort to persuade more employers to follow the National Grid's example. "They have a skills shortage - this is a source of labour," said one.National Grid now works with 15 open and closed prisons, and with both men and women. The first two female gas operatives have started training.In his 2003 budget, the chancellor, Gordon Brown, asked the company to roll the scheme out and it now extends across five sectors: gas, water, electricity, logistics and construction. Though the vast majority of participants take up manual jobs, some - like 22-year-old John - are hired for office work. Before being sentenced for nearly four years for a "serious crime with motor vehicles", he had worked for two and a half years in a City of London financial business.When he was shown the National Grid video about gas operatives at Rochester young offenders' institution he asked whether - given his background - there might be another opening.After extensive interviews and assessment, he is now half way through a two-year business administration NVQ while working for the company. "It has given me a new lease of life, a fresh start. Without it I don't like to think what my future could have been."