The home affairs select committee's report on trafficking has done the important service of getting this issue back in the news and, to some degree, back on the political agenda. It might not be right in every respect (which I'll come back to shortly) but this is a major and important report from Keith Vaz, which is right to stress several key failings in how the government is attempting to deal with the scourge of modern-day slavery on British soil. These include officials' insistence on viewing trafficking through an immigration lens, the creation of a flawed identification system that is dominated by the police and immigration authorities while keeping NGOs and other specialists at arm's length, and a niggardly refusal to properly support key service providers such as the Poppy Project or even the Metropolitan police's own human trafficking unit.The government has signed up to the European convention on action against human trafficking. After televised police raids on brothels, official information campaigns targeting key entry points such as Heathrow, and a major consultation of experts in the sector, it has been busy. But whether it's achieved enough and is even headed in the right direction is open to question.The creation of a UK human trafficking centre in Sheffield is the government's proudest counter-trafficking achievement, but it is already proving ill-equipped for the task. Designated by the government a "competent authority" for establishing whether a specific person is actually a victim of trafficking, the centre allows no formal role for the very people who can help make this assessment: human rights organisations, women's groups and other independent experts. Instead, the UKHTC is police-dominated and works with the immigration authorities (the only other "competent authority"). This is exactly the opposite of what Amnesty International and other groups advised the government.The government has created a closed circle of immigration and police officers that typically finds it difficult to determine whether, for example, a seemingly mouthy young female prostitute is actually a traumatised trafficked woman resisting what she sees as hostile outsiders; whether an illegal seller of pirate DVDs has been forced into it at knife-point; or whether a supposedly "lying" domestic worker is actually truthfully explaining that her "employers" were really her imprisoners. Crucially, get this stage wrong and you've failed these vulnerable people when it matters most.So the Vaz report is right to stress the primary failings as those of identification and expertise. As any anti-trafficking expert will tell you, when a person comes out of a situation of entrapment, violence and exploitation – be it a city centre brothel or a day labourer's squalid trailer in a Lincolnshire field – they face a potentially daunting decision: whether to talk to the police or to anyone "official", and what to say anyway.For example, it's rarely a case of just sitting down and explaining how they were tricked, beaten up and made to "service" 20 "punters" a day. They've experienced the rapes, beatings, the forced supply of alcohol or other drugs. Forced into a place that most of us can barely imagine, they often emerge extremely damaged, physically ill (STDs are very common), and suffering from depression, post-traumatic stress disorder or a host of other psychological conditions. And they're often wracked with shame and self-disgust, as well as being very frightened people. They need time, space and safety – which is why the government should, as the committee's report also suggests (though not forcefully enough), allow a longer "reflection period" and residency rights not contingent on being made to assist in criminal prosecutions.Meanwhile, the HASC report fails to press the government over what is happening to those that slip through the net because they're mis-identified in the first place. If trafficking survivors are treated as "illegal immigrants", they face detention, deportation and return to the very places where they were often tricked by criminals in the first place. There they're again easy prey for the violent racketeers growing rich on this multi-billion-pound global trade in human exploitation.