A mother has been arrested on suspicion of murder following the alleged mercy killing of her daughter, who had been seriously ill with ME for 17 years, it emerged yesterday.Detectives are now examining the precise circumstances of the death of 31-year-old Lynn Gilderdale, after they were called to her bungalow in Stonegate, East Sussex, at 8.30am on Thursday. Since her diagnosis with ME (myalgic encephalopathy) she had required looking after around the clock, and her mother Kay, 54, was her full-time carer.Gilderdale fell ill after receiving a BCG vaccination for TB when she was 14, and went on to have bronchitis, tonsillitis and glandular fever, before being diagnosed with ME in May 1992. For much of her life she was unable to leave her bed, communicating with her family through sign language.Her mother is separated from her father Richard, a former police sergeant who works in a civilian police role in nearby Hastings. Gilderdale's family said before her illness she was an active teenager; she enjoyed sailing, swimming, cycling and was an accomplished musician. In a statement released yesterday, her family said: "Lynn was young, beautiful, loving and caring. At the age of 14 years she was struck down by ME - an illness greatly misunderstood - and as a result, suffered the stigma attached to this dreadful illness. She fought long and hard for 17 years with immense bravery, enduring constant pain and sickness." They said she required 24-hour care, which was provided by her mother with continuous support from her father."Her family praise and admire Lynn for her courage, which she showed to the end. She was a much-loved daughter, sister and granddaughter who, despite her illness, always gave love and support to others." They said her death would leave a massive void in their lives and she would be missed every minute of the day. However, they vowed to continue to campaign for better understanding of ME.Lynn once spent two months in hospital on a life support machine after suffering a punctured lung following complications after receiving medication through an intravenous catheter known as a Hickman line.In an interview two years ago, her mother revealed how doctors at a specialist clinic in London treated her daughter as an attention-seeker.She said that although Lynn could not swallow, spoke only in a whisper and failed to recognise people, she was made to take part in punishing experiments. At her worst, Lynn could only move her little finger, experienced painful muscular spasms and shook all over.She could not bear any light, touch or noise and could hear only one whispered voice at a time.As a result of being bedridden, Lynn often had blood clots and suffered from severe osteoporosis, irritable bowel syndrome and asthma, and was fed through a tube."I don't resent what it has done to my life but I do resent whatever has made her so ill," her mother said during the interview. "It's been heartbreaking to watch my child lose her faculties one by one."It is still very hard for me to see mothers and daughters together or groups of teenagers dressed up and laughing or to hear a family in the garden having a barbecue with children running around."Gilderdale campaigned for better public awareness of her condition, which was once regarded as "yuppie flu". Her mother was arrested and released on bail until March next year pending further inquiries.Chief Inspector Heather Keating, the Rother district police commander, said: "This is a very tragic incident, but we are not looking for anyone else in connection with it."A spokesman for Sussex police said: "A 54-year-old woman from Stonegate, arrested on suspicion of murder, has been interviewed and bailed to return on March 6." Some 250,000 people are estimated to be affected by ME in Britain, according to The ME Association's website.Symptoms include severe and debilitating fatigue, painful muscles and joints, gastric disturbances and poor memory.