Steven Grisales was 21 when he was stabbed to death in a north London street last week. A 15-year-old boy has been charged with his murder. Grisales had been running a shopping errand for his grandmother at the time of the attack. "It's incredible that this could happen to him," his father said. "We can't explain it. This shouldn't happen to anyone."Every such killing is a separate case, committed in its own particular circumstances and motivated by savage forces that may always be a frightening mystery. It is unwise and premature to draw general conclusions from individual acts of chilling brutality. Perhaps, though, we can learn something useful from the dry statistics about the use of knives in attacks on young people in London in recent years.In July I published statistics compiled for me by the Metropolitan police about violent offences against 13- to 24-year-olds during the previous three years. These showed that in 2008-09 1,594 cases were reported of people in that age group sustaining injuries from attacks with knives and that the number rose to 2,076 in the following year. The year after that – to the end of March 2011 – they stayed the same. These figures represent an increase of more than 30% over the period in question.All types of offences categorised as "knife crime" have also risen. These include incidents – robberies, for instance – where the perpetrator was seen to have a knife or where possession of one was intimated. There were 5,923 such offences recorded by the Met against 13- to 24-year-olds in 2008-09, 6,460 in 2009-10 and 7,231 in 2010-11 – an increase of over 20%. In each of the three years, over 60% of those victims were teenagers.Crimes involving knives are only one part of the picture of violence and intimidation against young people in the capital. Different sets of stats tell a more mixed and, to some extent, more reassuring tale. The Met's figures for the same three-year period showed that all offences involving "serious violence" against 13- to 24-year-olds had risen very slightly, while those characterised by "most serious violence" – which covers homicide, attempted murder and GBH – had dropped significantly from 5,197 in 2008-09 to 5,115 in 2009-10 and to 4,145 in 2010-11.There are a couple of important things to bear in mind about these figures. One, they enumerate victims, and so tell us nothing about the ages of the perpetrators – the term "youth crime" can often be taken to refer those who commit offences. Two, it's vital to bear in mind that not every violent crime against a young person becomes known to the police. London mayor Boris Johnson's 2008 policy document on young people was admirably candid about this (see page 59)."Not all offences are reported to the police because some victims do not wish to inform the authorities or feel unable to do so. For example youths are often reluctant to report violence-related injuries due to fear of reprisal, because they wish to deal with the problem personally, because they have behaved criminally themselves, or because they lack confidence in the police."It would be helpful if the mayor were that straightforward more often. Among the carefully constructed messages he's been sending as he seeks re-election to City Hall next year is a good news story about youth crime. In the section on young Londoners in his annual report published in May he listed as highlights (page 31) that "youth violence fell by more than six per cent in 2010-11", and that "over 11,000 knives have been taken off London's streets since 2008". The website of his Back Boris 2012 campaign claims that "youth crime is down 15%".Where do the numbers the mayor is peddling come from? What do they actually mean? Do they obscure the extent of some of the worst violence against the young in the capital? Johnson produced more data during his monthly mayor's question time in July. "Youth violence in London has fallen by 7.4% since May 2008," he said. He added that "violence with injury in the last year has come down by 8.6%" and that "knife crime itself is down 8.5%", though it wasn't clear by this point if he was talking about crimes against young people in particular. I sought clarification. None has been provided so far.Johnson came to power promising energetic action in response to an alarming increase in the numbers of teenagers killed in London. To his credit, he has continued to devote significant time and energy to the issue, but where knife crime is concerned there are grounds for asking if the high-profile tactics he has encouraged the Met to use have really helped. Does the routine use of stop-and-search actually do more harm than good? Would better results be achieved if police officers' time were used in different ways?The Conservative mayor's main challenger, Labour's Ken Livingstone, is yet to fully elaborate his position on youth crime, but the indications are that it won't be very different from Johnson's. Ex-senior Met officer Brian Paddick has joined the race on behalf of the Liberal Democrats. Will he refresh the debate? Can the Green party's Jenny Jones, an experienced member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, set the pace? One thing seems for sure: the knife and the fear of it is a continuing and growing blight on the lives of far too many young people in London. The politician with the nerve and imagination to propose truly bold solutions will deserve a reward at the ballot box.