A British family's eight-year wait for justice came to an end last night when a French court found Francisco Arce Montes, a Spanish drifter, guilty of murdering Cornish teenager Caroline Dickinson.Montes was sentenced to 30 years in prison, with no chance of parole for 20 years, for raping and suffocating 13-year-old Caroline on July 17 1996, in Pleine Fougères youth hostel, Brittany, while she was on a school trip to France with Launceston community college."I would like to be able to say this in French, but the emotion is too much," Caroline's father John, an environmental health officer, said outside Rennes courthouse after the verdict. Mr Dickinson paid tribute first to his daughter. "Although her life was short she was happy, we knew she had a life ahead of her full of promise," he said. We have some wonderful memories that we will cherish and she will never be forgotten." Mr Dickinson said the events of the past week "have been for us a necessary but draining experience, as of course has the pursuit of justice for Caroline over the last eight years. We will now start the process of rebuilding our lives." Montes, a 54-year old serial predator suspected or convicted of molesting young girls in five European countries over 30 years, had admitted sexually assaulting Caroline and blocking her mouth with a wad of cotton wool to stop her crying out. But he told the court he did not intend to kill her and said in evidence that he believed she was still breathing when he left her. Invited to speak in his defence before the judge, Fabienne Doroy, Montes, who appeared sunk in his thoughts for much of the trial, said merely: "I have nothing to add. I am ashamed." The court also ordered Montes to pay John and Sue Dickinson €35,0000 (£21,000) each in damages, and Caroline's younger sister Jenny €25,000. In reality, since the Spaniard has no way of paying the sum, the bill will be met from a French state compensation fund. Montes has 10 days in which to appeal and was said by his lawyers to be considering it. The Dickinson family's lawyer, Hervé Rouzaud le Boeuf, said the court's decision was "balanced and appropriate". The Dickinsons were pleased Montes had been convicted of murder rather than a lesser offence, he said, "because that is the way they feel their daughter was taken from them", and the 30-year-senten Mr Dickinson also thanked the family's French lawyer, the investigating magistrates, British police and the French gendarmes of the "Caroline cell", as well as Tommy Ontko, the US immigration officer who eventually located Montes almost by chance in Miami, Florida, in 2001. At the end of a six-day trial the public prosecutor, Francois-Rene Aubry, had demanded a life sentence with no possibility of parole for at least 22 years. Even Montes' defence lawyers warned him in court yesterday that he might never leave prison. The Spaniard was arrested by chance only in 2001 after a French inquiry that was bungled. Mr Ontko, who had seen Montes listed as a suspect in a newspaper article, ran the name through a computer database and found he was in jail in Miami on charges of lewd behaviour. The jury, which took just over four hours to reach its verdict, rejected the defence's argument that nothing in Montes' past record suggested he had intended to kill Caroline.