The jurors who convicted the Norfolk farmer Tony Martin of murdering a teenage burglar could make legal history by being questioned in the court of appeal about allegations that they were intimidated.Three judges, headed by Lord Justice Rose, the vice-president of the court's criminal division, are to hold a ground-breaking hearing in London on Monday to decide how far they can look into claims that jurors at the trial last April were menaced by stares from the public gallery. The judges will decide "whether and in what terms" jurors can be quizzed when the farmer's appeal is heard later this year. Their decision could pave the way for jurors to give evidence for the first time in a criminal appeal. One of Martin's five grounds of appeal is that a fair trial was not possible because of the "atmosphere of intimidation" faced by the jury and witnesses. But legal precedents say that the appeal court cannot inquire into deliberations in the jury room. That suggests the jurors could not be questioned directly on whether their feelings influenced their verdicts. In a 1962 case, the appeal court was told that jurors were poised to deliver a not guilty verdict when the foreman read out a list of the defendant's convictions and they changed their minds. The court refused to hear evidence about the alleged irregularity. A note on the case in Blackstone's Criminal Practice says: "It may be thought that, if the allegation made by the appellant was true, it was monstrous that his conviction should have been upheld. The case thus demonstrates the absolute nature of the rule that the court of appeal will not, metaphorically speaking, enter the jury room." In 1995, jurors in a double murder trial who were staying overnight at a hotel tried to contact one of the victims with a ouija board in a drunken experiment to try to find out whether the defendant, Stephen Young, was guilty. The appeal court decided it could look into the incident, since it happened outside the jury room, and quashed the conviction, ordering a retrial. Those jurors were questioned by the Treasury solicitor with a policeman and gave their evidence in written statements. Martin's solicitor, Nick Makin, said he believed that would be the most likely course of action in Martin's case. The farmer, 55, was jailed for life in April after jurors convicted him on a majority of 10-2 of murdering Fred Barras, 16, and wounding his accomplice, Brendon Fearon, 30. Martin opened fire on the pair with an unlicensed shotgun last August after disturbing them at his home, Bleak House, in Emneth Hungate, Norfolk. A spokesman for the lord chancellor's department said: "The judges will consider whether and in what terms jurors can be questioned over the claims of intimidation. It is a very sensitive area. "The judges will have to decide if the jurors are to be questioned and what form any questioning will take. One of the issues to be decided is whether they should be questioned in open court or if their anonymity should be kept by keeping them behind screens."