Once upon a time, a frolicking music hack called Barbara (yes, moi) had a baby. It certainly "smarted", but on the whole the birth was so straightforward I went around, for ages afterwards, droning smugly about how I was "of good working-class stock – hailing from an era when women would chuck one out, then carry on with the haymaking".Some years later, I was in hospital, having an emergency caesarean, my five-week premature baby having to be rescued from my rubbish uterus. This time around, there was no smug droning. Just the realisation that biology, always a savage mistress, is never more random and pitiless than when it comes to childbirth, that it is more than possible for one woman to have polar opposite experiences – most importantly, that the positive outcome of one birth can mean naff all when it comes to the next time.This sprang to mind when I read about the Birthplace in England study, comparing the data for 65,000 "low-risk" women planning to give birth either at hospital, in a midwife-led birthing unit, or at home. First-time mothers attempting to give birth at home had almost three times the risk of serious difficulties. Who'd have thought it? A first-timer attempting to produce human life in a paddling pool in their front room, with Norah Jones on the iPod – what could possibly go wrong?The study's Professor Brocklehurst described the sort of first-time home birthers as "white, slightly older, better educated, living in more affluent areas". He didn't say it, or even suggest it but, to me, these sound like assertive, capable, but heartbreakingly naive women who delude themselves that because they've been a hot shot in marketing they can control the vagaries of childbirth. Dream on.Almost half of first-time mothers attempting home birth ended up in hospital due to complications during labour, but so did almost 12% of women who'd given birth before and had been judged to have "no increased risk". Let's get this straight: there is "no increased risk" until labour starts? Hmm. In the meantime, much-needed midwives are giving one-to-one attention to all of these women, a sizable percentage of whom end up in hospital anyway? What a selfish, dangerous web the home-birth lobby weaves.Ladies! Childbirth isn't a souped-up hatha yoga session – it's dangerous and you need to be safe. We must also dispel the notion that just because it goes well once, it will go well next time. What does "low risk" mean anyway? After all, it's not just about a woman's birthing history, it's about the child. So what if the mother has done it before; the baby hasn't. Nor has the pregnancy happened before. Ergo, each birth is a first, there is no precedent, the variables are endless and "low-risk" becomes meaningless nonsense.Too many women seem to view successful labours as gestational brownie points, like collecting stamps from Caffè Nero for a free cappuccino. Only in this scenario, they get the top prize of a trouble-free home birth. I'm sorry, but that's not realistic.It scares me to think that, with my history, even factoring in my increased age, I'd have probably been judged a promising "low-risk" candidate for a home birth for my second child. When in fact, I was a uterine Chernobyl waiting to happen. The odds are that this probably wouldn't happen to all you women out there, but guess what? It might. We mustn't kid ourselves that childbirth can ever be risk-assessed in advance. Just as every human being is different, so is every pregnancy and birth.Believe me, if it goes horribly wrong, as it did for me, you really don't want to be in your front room, lying on a beanbag, with only an ice cube to suck on. Norah Jones can only help so much.Talk about as thick as thieves A 16-year-old repeat offender's apology letter to the people he burgled was something of a remorse-free zone. "Dear Victim," he announced (henceforth all misspellings are his), before continuing: "I don't no why I'm writing a letter to you! I have been forced to by ISSP [Intensive Supervision and Surveillance Programme]. I'm not bothered or sorry I burgled your house. Basicly it was your fault anyways." He pointed out his victims' "dumb mistakes", announcing: "I'm not going to show any sympath or remors", signing off: "Yours sincerly."What a charmer. Who would not brim over with forgiveness when faced with such a missive? Still, he's clearly a bit of a wrong'un, though at least this makes a refreshing change from all those insincere letters sent by criminals in the hope that they'll get off with a lighter sentence.All that pious scrawling about how they wished they'd never made off with your DVD player and that they'd seen the error of their ways. Yeah, whatever, tea leaf.For all his faults, including the kind of spelling you usually only see on an accidentally overturned Scrabble board, at least this young gentleman isn't a hypocrite. Just a thief and a thicko and not just because of the spelling mistakes.It's sad, then, that this letter wasn't posted on to the victims of the burglary for fear of causing offence. Spoilsports. Just because people have been burgled doesn't mean that they've lost their sense of humour.The victims may have enjoyed the fact that they'd been burgled by a very special, as in particularly stupid, miscreant. The kind who, even though he's offended before and presumably knows the ropes, can't be bothered to apologise, even when it's in his own best interests. That has to be worth a stamp.Please can we say goodbye to Norma Jean?The new Marilyn Monroe biopic, My Week With Marilyn, starring Michelle Williams, is out. How tedious. For me, Monroe, along with James Dean, was only ever useful as an Athena poster litmus test – if you came across people with them on their wall, you knew they were incapable of independent thought. Monroe and Dean were "Tragic Icons R Us" for those without the wit to think of something more original.The same goes for any thespians citing Monroe's vulnerability as an influence. Why always vulnerability? What about courage, humour, sass? Bette Davis or Ava Gardner – the latter was such a ballbuster she made Frank Sinatra cry. If I were an actress, Glenn Close would be my role model – zipping elegantly between film and TV roles without a Norma Desmond meltdown in sight.Anyone who's really interested in Marilyn should read Joyce Carol Oates's harrowing novel, Blonde. Otherwise, be aware that Ms Monroe's cult of vulnerability is directly linked to everyone in popular culture hawking a "Boo hoo! Poor me!" backstory these days. If Marilyn really was a candle in the wind, isn't it time we all took a deep breath and blew the myth out?