Tony Blair will return to the political fray after his summer break today with an upbeat defence of antisocial behaviour orders as a successful element of the government's law and order strategy.The prime minister is expected to use today's speech to confirm that Home Office experts - dubbed "asbo ambassadors" - will be dispatched to encourage reluctant local authorities to deploy the orders against so-called yobs. After a shaky start in 1999-2000, asbos have increasingly been used by some councils. About 2,600 have been issued - but only patchily across Britain. The home secretary, David Blunkett, hopes to change this. Mr Blair, who has been on family visits to Barbados, Sardinia and Tuscany, has seen Conservative efforts during August fail to have much impact. One poll last week put the two main parties on 34% each, with the Lib Dems on 21%. After months of anti-Blair muttering it is Michael Howard who is under pressure. He has reportedly been barred from meeting George Bush because of his criticisms of Mr Blair's Iraq policies. On the domestic front pollsters have confirmed that the government's efforts to tackle bad behaviour have been popular with voters, especially in poorer areas. Mr Blunkett is hoping for a 15% drop in bad behaviour by 2008. But his efforts have been described as a gimmick by some professionals and Tories. The initial policy involved too much paperwork, and was modified in 2002. With Mr Blunkett due back at his desk today, Louise Casey, who runs his antisocial behaviour unit, joined colleagues to praise the strategy on radio and TV yesterday. "This is a great opportunity for local areas to really raise their game through taking advantage, at no cost, of high quality consultancy," Ms Casey said . Bill Pitt, a tutor with the Home Office antisocial behaviour unit and one of the "asbo ambassadors", said the legislation had not been used as well or as often as it could be. "The Asbo is about the protection of the communities; it is about the witnesses; it is about the individuals whose lives have been made miserable," he said. "Asbos ... establish the line that must not be crossed." · Nick Woods, who was Iain Duncan Smith's spokesman as Tory leader, yesterday described the Conservatives' recent performance as disappointing. Mr Woods said: "There's been no real progress across the summer. The byelections back in July were dreadful. There is a byelection coming in Hartlepool which is going to be very difficult."