Gareth Williams, the MI6 intelligence officer whose body was found in a locked holdall, visited a series of bondage websites in the months before his death, police revealed today.Williams, a 31-year-old codebreaker, viewed sites that showed people bound and tied and included do-it-yourself guides.A detective said she was convinced, however, that someone else had been involved in putting Williams into the bag.Detectives also found a £15,000 collection of unworn women's designer clothing, including tops, dresses and shoes, in his wardrobe.They revealed that Williams had visited a drag cabaret in east London four days before his death, and had tickets to two more. One witness has also come forward to say he was at a popular gay bar in Vauxhall, south London, several months before his death.Williams's decomposing body was found in a padlocked holdall in the bath of his flat in Pimlico, central London, on 23 August. The keys were inside.Detective Chief Inspector Jackie Sebire, leading the inquiry, said she was convinced someone else had helped to put him in there. She said police believe they will find out more about the spy's death by studying his private life.Speaking at New Scotland Yard, she added: "We remain completely open-minded about how he died. We are appealing today to someone who is out there to come forward and tell us more."Williams, who had been on secondment from GCHQ to the spy agency, was found dead after concerns about his welfare were raised. The mysterious circumstances of his death sparked international speculation. No evidence of drugs, alcohol or poisons were found during tests conducted by toxicologists.Sebire revealed police had forensic evidence that other people, whom they have not been able to trace, were in the flat. She added that an expert, brought in to examine the red North Face holdall Williams was found in, concluded that he could not have locked it.The zip was held shut by a common travel-style Yale padlock through holes in two zip fasteners. Tests found the temperature inside the bag would have risen to 30C within three minutes. An expert on survivability in confined spaces from the National Policing Improvement Agency said Williams would have suffocated within 30 minutes.Sebire said he probably died in the early hours of 16 August, a week before he was found. She said there was no sign of injury apart from bruising to his elbows, which might have taken place some time before his death.Police also released two efits of a couple who said they were visiting Williams's home in Alderney Street in late June or July. The casually dressed Mediterranean couple, in their 20s, were buzzed through the communal entrance by another resident.  CCTV image of Gareth Williams at Holland Park tube station on 14 August 2010. Photograph: PAThey suggested they had been given a key by "Pierre Palo" and were on their way to flat four.Williams, of Anglesey, north Wales, was last seen alive on 15 August, eight days before he was found dead.Elaborating on the find of women's clothing, Sebire said items by Stella McCartney, Christopher Kane and Louboutin had been bought at London boutiques and online. The clothing was in various sizes, but all of a smallish size, and a number of women's wigs were also found.Sebire said Williams attended two fashion design courses at Central St Martins College, in Clerkenwell, in 2009 and 2010. She revealed that GCHQ did not know Williams had undertaken the courses or that he had an interest in fashion. The detectives said it was possible the clothing was linked to the diploma courses for beginners, which Williams had passed.Sebire said analysis of Williams's phones and laptops revealed he visited no more than five bondage websites.The detective said there was evidence that Williams viewed the sites occasionally from the end of last year onwards. But she added there was no evidence that he was "obsessed" with bondage and no other pornography was found. She said no bondage paraphernalia or equipment was found in the flat.Sebire said that despite the women's clothing, possible visit to the gay bar and drag act tickets, police did not know for certain that Williams was gay.She said: "We do not have any evidence to suggest that he was gay. We have not spoken to any past or present sexual partner, whether male or female."We know he was intensely private, and however difficult this might be for someone who has has any interaction with Gareth, it would really help us if they came forward so we know if that side of his life had any relevance to his death."An inquest will be held at Westminster coroners court on 15 February.