The battered body of an elderly eccentric may have lain beneath a mountain of debris in his ramshackle mansion for weeks before being discovered by police, it emerged yesterday.Detectives investigating the murder of 86-year-old Allan Chappelow, a reclusive author and photographer who took the last pictures of George Bernard Shaw, are ploughing through seven decades' worth of documents, newspapers and photographs at his house in Hampstead, north London, as they hunt for his killer.His body was in a such a state of decay and hidden under so much rubbish it took police 48 hours to remove it, sources said yesterday.Officers broke into the derelict Grade II listed Georgian property, which is worth £2m, last week after being contacted by Mr Chappelow's bank. Staff there had grown concerned when more than £10,000 was withdrawn from his account and when he failed to make his usual weekly deposit. One theory is that an intruder beat and tortured Mr Chappelow to get his bank details from him, before battering him to death.But detectives are also investigating whether a break-in two months ago at the house had anything to do with the killing.Detective Chief Inspector Peter Lansdown, who is leading the inquiry, refused to speculate on a motive yesterday. He said identification had been made through dental records and further tests were needed to find out when Mr Chappelow was killed. A postmortem examination has confirmed that he died of head injuries.Mr Lansdown confirmed that the body may have lain in the house for weeks, something neighbours also said yesterday.One friend said he had not seen Mr Chappelow take his usual outings to the local library and the greengrocer for five to six weeks."It seems his body has been in the house for several weeks," said Peter Tausig, a neighbour and friend. "He was one of life's eccentrics. He had lived in the house for 72 years, and I don't think anything has been done to it since. The gardens were completely overgrown and he would get up on the roof to repair the cracks with Sellotape and put plastic bags on the chimney to stop the rain coming in."He would never let anyone into his house; I think he was ashamed of it. He just was a very private man. He kept telling me he was working on a new book which would be remarkable, but no one knows what it was about."Neighbours were yesterday coming to terms with the brutal killing of a man they knew as a lovable recluse who moved into the house in Downshire Hill, opposite Hampstead Heath, with his parents when he was 14.The son of an antiques dealer, Mr Chappelow was most often seen wearing an RAF gabardine mackintosh tied with string and riding a 1940s motorbike around the north London suburb. In 1950 he rode the same motorbike to the home of George Bernard Shaw in Ayot St Lawrence, Hertfordshire, to attempt to photograph the playwright just weeks before he died after falling from a ladder.In an account of that meeting, Mr Chappelow described how it was the result of three months of persistence which paid off when the playwright finally agreed to pose for the picture with the words: "You can take as many photographs as you like. Where would you like me - indoors, or out?".The encounter led Mr Chappelow to write a biography of Shaw, which was published in 1962, entitled Shaw the Villager, and a second book on the playwright entitled The Chucker Out.The Cambridge-educated writer went on to write more books but his public appearances became fewer until he retreated into the lifestyle of a total recluse about 15 years ago.Mr Chappelow's only know relative, Michael Chappelow, said he had communicated with him by letter because he refused to leave his home. He received his last letter from him on March 2. "He lived in the house with his parents and brother, who had cerebral palsy and died in the 1950s," said Mr Chappelow."Until his father died in 1960 it was quite an ordinary family home, but after that Allan became more and more reclusive. I am just terribly sad at what has happened."Mr Chappelow was not known to have enemies, although his failure to maintain his property, which is situated in a row of £2.5m houses in a sought after avenue in Hampstead, caused frustration among some.For several years his property was listed on the English Heritage at risk register, but attempts by planning officers to enter it and speak to Mr Chappelow always failed.Tony Hillier, chairman of the Heath and Hampstead Society, said that on the whole people were quite happy to let him live the way he wanted to."People regarded him with affection around here," he said.