The 10-year crime plan announced by the government yesterday is designed to reverse the longterm decline in detection and conviction rates while breaking the "cycle of reoffending" of the hard core 100,000 more persistent criminals said to commit 50% of all recorded crime.Only 9% of all recorded crimes end in a conviction now compared with 18% in 1980, according to figures published in the paper. Key parts of the plan are awaiting reports later this year from Lord Justice Auld and John Halliday on wide ranging shake-ups of courts and sentencing.  Policing  Introduction of two-tier policing, with the police accrediting and co-ordinating private security guards, park keepers, car park attendants, night club bouncers and others to provide visible patrols and a presence to reduce the fear of crime. New "super bobbies" who co-ordinate this activity would be paid more. Random patrols of streets ruled out, instead "intelligence-led patrolling" would see new police-accredited patrols outside schools at the beginning and end of the school day or outside commuter stations at rush hours or other places used by large numbers at peak periods. Officers should no longer patrol in twos but alone, as they are "more likely to engage with local people than if patrolling in company with others". Mobile police stations brought into shopping centres and churches. The public will be able to report minor crimes online. Civilian investigators will help solve minor crimes such as shoplifting, as in a pilot scheme in Chippenham, Wiltshire. Expansion of trained detective capacity and recruitment of civilian specialists as reinforcements. DNA database to cover whole active criminal population - 1m people - by 2004.  Victims  Separate victims' fund for quicker compensation. All courts passing a community sentence will consider if the victim should be paid reparation. By 2005 victims will be able to track progress of their case online. From April every victim of a sexual or violent criminal will be consulted about conditions of release of their attacker.  Courts  Introduction of a modern criminal code for the first time to ensure simpler and fairer trials. Possible evening courts and extended working hours in crime hotspots, but there will be no 24-hour courts or network of drug courts. New rules of evidence including disclosure of previous convictions to jurors in limited circumstances, for example where the defendant puts his character at issue. Fuller disclosure of defence evidence before trial. New prosecution right of appeal against judicial rulings to cut number of cases dismissed prematurely. Prosecution to be given right to challenge defence plea of mitigation. Seven hundred more crown prosecutors and a new prosecutors' college in which to train them. No televising of trials but cameras to be introduced to appeal hearings. The plan says there is concern about the representative nature of juries, but no decisions yet on reform. Specialist hearings for drugs and domestic violence cases.  Sentencing  New "custody plus" sentence to replace the short prison terms of less than 12 months served by 47,000 inmates each year. Currently inmates leave prison just as illiterate and unemployable as they go in. It will consist of a fixed period in prison followed by a further period under an enforced programme of supervision and treatment in the community. Those who fail to comply with the conditions of the community sentence will be automatically returned to prison to serve rest of sentence. Review hearings to monitor progress and order future action. Community element might include 22 sessions on a drug treatment course, weekly meetings with a probation officer and a curfew enforced with a tag from 7pm to 7am. Jack Straw would not specify yesterday if the time served inside would be shorter than the current six months for those sentenced to a year and if prison numbers would rise or fall as a result of its introduction. He did say however that some persistent offenders now given community sentences would be sent to prison under "custody plus". Tougher sentencing of the 100,000 persistent offenders. Straw said the clause in the 1991 Criminal Justice Act which had prevented the courts giving progressively heavier sentences to those who kept coming before them had been repealed in 1993 but said its "spirit" still lived on. The clause ensured that the punishment was in proportion to the crime, so nobody was sent to prison for stealing a milk bottle. The crime plan says new sentencing philosophy will be based on the offender and not the offence. Prolific offenders will face increasingly more severe punishment.  Prisons  2,660 more prison places; 400 more secure training places for young offenders; number of inmates getting qualifications inside to double by 2004; £30m "custody to work" scheme to double number of ex-prisoners going into a job.  Criminal Justice: The way ahead, cm 5074, TSO, £15.70.