Kevin Wells clenched his fist and nodded as the foreman gave the jury's verdict to the hushed courtroom one at the Old Bailey: "Guilty."Beside him on the hard wooden bench, his wife Nicola began to weep as Ian Huntley was finally brought to justice for the murder of their daughter Holly and her schoolfriend Jessica Chapman. The verdicts brought, Mr Wells said afterwards, great relief, "but certainly no sense of euphoria". The families' greatest question remains unanswered: what happened to their 10-year-old daughters on that Sunday night, 16 months ago, in a house just hundreds of yards from their own homes in Soham, Cambridgeshire? "There's only one man who can answer that question and whether he has the guts to answer the question publicly is down to him," said Jessica's father, Leslie Chapman. Huntley had kept his secrets as the evidence stacked up against him, speaking only to air increasingly bizarre lies about his role in the girls' disappearance. Yesterday he remained impassive as the guilty verdicts were read out. Only twice in his 30-day trial had his composure faltered: once when he lost his temper in the witness box; once, when he wiped his eyes as his former fiancee said she wanted nothing to do with him. "Your tears have never been for them, only for yourself," Mr Justice Moses told him yesterday, sentencing him to life for each murder and excoriating his "persistent cruelty" and "merciless cynicism". "In your lies and manipulation, up to this very day, you have increased the suffering you have caused the two families. You showed no mercy and no regret," he added, telling him there were "few worse crimes" than the double child-murder. Maxine Carr bowed her head as she was cleared of assisting an offender. She looked up slightly at the verdict of "guilty" on the lesser charge of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. "Your selfish concern for yourself and Huntley led you to lie all too readily and too glibly," Mr Justice Moses said of the false alibi she had given her partner. "Your intelligence and strength of mind could have been used to ease the suffering of those families, but were used to compound their misery." He sentenced her to 3 years, but she is likely to be released on licence in May next year because of the time she has spent on remand. The jury re-entered the courtroom shortly before noon, after 17 hours and 32 minutes of deliberation. None of the five men and seven women looked at the defendants as the foreman delivered their verdicts, all - bar Carr's unanimous acquittals - reached by an 11-1 majority. Holly's family, who had clasped hands as they waited, passed each other tissues and shared hugs as tears began to fall. "Your grief at the loss of such bright and life-enhancing daughters cannot be imagined and cannot be shared," Mr Justice Moses told them. "Our sympathy is made all the greater by witnessing your bravery." He added: "Your loss, your tragedy, is a loss and tragedy for us all." Only Mr Chapman's words revealed his true feelings towards his child's murderer: "I hope that the next time I have to see him will be like we saw our daughters, and that's in a coffin." The schoolfriends' parents were red-eyed but composed as they spoke publicly for the first time since Huntley's arrest. "I think he was a time bomb just ready to go off," said Mr Chapman, 52. "Unfortunately, our girls were just in the wrong place at the wrong time." Asked how she had stayed strong, his wife Sharon, 44, looked up briefly and replied: "That man's changed everything. He's not going to win this." Mr and Mrs Wells, 40 and 36, shared that sentiment as they spoke tentatively of their future: a short holiday to gather their thoughts and, in time, discussions on a possible memorial to the young friends. Even Carr's lawyer, Roy James, stressed that his client knew everyone's thoughts "will and should be" with the families of the girls she had helped to teach. He said she was "thankful" the jury had recognised she did not know Huntley had murdered Holly and Jessica, adding that on her release she would "try to have as normal a life as possible". That is all the girls' families, too, can strive for as they wait to see whether Huntley will ever tell the truth about their daughters' deaths. "Our life sentence started last August," said Mr Chapman. "His is only just beginning."