Footage of a police officer admitting he hated an Asian colleague so much he would like to put on a Ku Klux Klan-style hood and then kill him was broadcast last night as part of a television documentary about racism in the police.Undercover reporter Mark Daly, who joined Greater Manchester police as a trainee and secretly filmed at the Bruche national training centre in Warrington, Cheshire, also caught seven other officers on camera expressing racist views. The eight were named as PCs Andy Hall, Carl Jones, Tony Lewin, Adrian Harrison and Andy Turley from the Greater Manchester force, Rob Pulling and Keith Cheshire from the North Wales force and Steven Salkend, from the Cheshire force. Mr Daly and his executive producer Simon Ford said the film, screened on BBC1, provided the first hard evidence of police racism and showed the extent to which it had been driven underground. The programme, which has already led to the suspension of three officers from Greater Manchester and one from the North Wales constabulary, shows PC Rob Pulling referring to the only Asian officer on the course as a "Paki". "I fucking hate him ... I'd kill him. I'd pull my fucking hood on my head and fucking chase him down the road," he tells his colleagues. The same officer is also seen making a Klan hood out of a pillowcase and joking with Mr Daly about going to knock on the Asian recruit's door. Earlier, he is heard to say of the murdered black student Stephen Lawrence: "He fucking deserved it and his mum and dad are a fucking pair of spongers - and they've fucking seen a good opportunity and sponged it for everything they can get their hands on." He is then heard to add that those responsible for the murder should be given diplomatic immunity because, he says, they had done for England what others should do. Asked by Mr Daly if he could kill an Asian person, he is seen to nod and say: "It's a hatred thing." "I would go as far as I can get away with. If I could get away with burying the fucker under a train track, he's fucking going under the train track." PC Andy Hall, who had spent 15 months with the Metropolitan Police before moving to Manchester and undergoing his 15 weeks of training, tells Mr Daly: "Police are racist mate, police are racist." He adds that he would stop a member of the public because they were black or Asian. "I'm stopping him because I'm fucking English. At the end of the day mate, we look after our own," he says. PC Adrian Harrison is heard to say he believes the police are institutionally racist and that he is comfortable with that. Mr Daly, 28, joined the force in January this year and spent five-and-a-half months posing as a probationary constable. He was arrested in August while working for the force's Stockport division after police received an anonymous tip-off. He is due to answer bail next month on allegations that he gained his salary by deception and damaged a bullet proof vest by hiding a pinhole camera in it. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has criticised the footage and questioned the BBC's "intent to create, not report" the story. A spokeswoman for the National Assembly Against Racism said she found the documentary "chilling". "I do not think this is an isolated case - these officers are all serving on three different police forces," she said.Chief Inspector Leroy Logan, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Black Police Association told BBC's Five Live: "We are in crisis. This programme has shown we have a long way to go, because racism has been driven underground."Trevor Philips, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, said they would see if there were grounds for a formal investigation, and he would write to every chief constable in England and Wales "asking what measures they have in place to ensure that no racist is allowed to wear a police uniform".