Police are hunting for a gunman who shot a man at point-blank range on his doorstep soon after he had confronted two rowdy teenage girls outside his house.Barry Simpson, 33, was shot in the stomach after chasing both girls away from his home at Blantyre in Lanarkshire on Monday evening fearing they would disturb his baby daughter. He believes one girl then shouted: "We'll get you killed."About 10 minutes later, Simpson heard another disturbance outside and opened his door to a man he initially believed was carrying a knife. Instead his attacker, described as slim, white, bearded and wearing a white tracksuit, fired a shotgun, causing serious injuries.Simpson is now stable in hospital after emergency surgery for a large wound on his side.Detectives are treating the case as attempted murder and are examining CCTV footage.The case is the latest in a series of incidents where members of the public have been seriously attacked or killed after complaining about public disturbances and vandalism. Last week, three youths were convicted of murdering Garry Newlove, who was kicked to death after confronting youths in Warrington who were vandalising his wife's car.Simpson's mother, Agnes Simpson, said her son had suffered a brain haemorrhage several years ago after he was attacked by a gang and hit his head on a kerb. "His guardian angel must be watching over time, because that is the second time that we've nearly lost him," she said.Simpson's partner, Sharon Bryson, a nursery nurse and mother of their seven-week-old daughter Emma, said Simpson had initially chased the teenagers away but then returned to the front door."I just heard a loud banging, but didn't imagine it was a gun," she said. "Within seconds, he was straight back and saying 'I've been shot, I've been shot', holding his left side and trying to lock the door of the house."She believes he had closed the door just in time to deflect or dodge the pellets. He retreated to the kitchen so his daughter would not see his wounds."I was trying to stop the bleeding, but he was just more worried about Emma," Bryson said. "Barry doesn't know this gunman. It's something to do with the girls. They said 'We'll get you killed', and, 10 minutes later, a gunman is at the door."