The teenager made it clear what would happen to Robert Bentley if the two boys were forced to share a cell. 'If you don't give me my own cell, I'm going to beat him up,' he spat at police. Bentley had been on remand at the notorious Feltham Young Offenders Institution and was due to appear on a burglary charge for stealing 1,000 cigarettes. The 17-year-old was taken to the police cells before a court hearing in Slough four months ago. He never made it. Instead he was taken to hospital with blood streaming from his broken jaw after his cellmate carried out his threat. The blow's force was so great his bottom jaw was knocked out of alignment and doctors later fitted a steel plate to hold his face together. For the three days Bentley spent in hospital, he was chained to a prison officer. Bentley was on trial for a first offence that he'd committed to fund his drug habit. He shoplifted a bottle of whisky while on bail and, under strict adherence to new guidance from the Home Office, the courts adopted a two-strikes-and-you're-out policy. Home Secretary David Blunkett wants to get tough on 'bail bandits' like Bentley and he was sent to one of the country's harshest youth prison regimes. On his first night in prison, the time when experts believe children are most at risk of suicide or self-harm, Bentley was given no treatment for his drug addiction and had no assessment of his mental state. Later he told drugs counsellors that he thought about suicide all the time. 'I was a first offender. To put someone inside so unexpectedly, knowing I'd been stealing because of the habit, was cruel really. I could easily have killed myself that night. I had my trainers with the laces in them.' Sheila Quinn, a mental health worker in Manchester, saw her 17-year-old son, Paul, slip into mental illness after a period on remand in Stoke Heath Young Offenders Institution in the West Midlands. 'He told me that if he was still inside on his eighteenth birthday, he would kill himself. He had never experienced anything like this, and he is now an extremely paranoid young man,' she said. Paul had been accused of threatening a friend with a knife during a fight. When he was released on bail, he began having religious visions and jumped out of a window. As a result he was sent back to prison, for his own safety and for mental assessment. Like Bentley, he was a drug user, but he had no record of violence. All charges against him were later dropped, but Paul still suffers mental illness brought about, his mother believes, by a combination of drug abuse and his time spent inside. Sheila Quinn said: 'I feel passionately that children who should not be in prison in the first place are being left to rot.' This weekend a prominent children's charity has described the Government's policy on youth crime as an abuse of children's human rights. A book to be published by the Children's Society this week includes interviews with more than 100 staff and inmates in young offenders' institutions. It describes a bleak picture of a system struggling to cope with the increasing number of children being incarcerated. Vulnerable Inside, by Barry Goldson, shows that Bentley and Paul's experiences are not unique. In one example, a child with learning disabilities was remanded in custody for the theft of toffees from a jar of sweets and criminal damage to the lid of the jar. One prison officer said: 'I think that when the door closes and there is no one else around, the bravado goes and they realise that they are just children. The thought of me being locked up alone when I was 15 - it would have scared the hell out of me.' But the most shocking testimony of bullying, intimidation, neglect and self-harm comes from the children themselves. One 16-year-old tells of a child who committed suicide after bullying: 'This morning, when we came out for breakfast, the screws said that he had tried to kill himself and he was in hospital on a life-support machine. At dinner they said he was dead. He was 16, the same age as me. Everyone was quiet.' The latest figures show a rise of 21 per cent in the number of 15-year-olds remanded into prison in the 12 months to April 2001. A quarter of all 15-to-16-year-olds remanded in prison are accused of property offences. Children's charities are voicing serious concerns about Blunkett's April announcement that suspects as young as 12 will now be remanded in custody for persistent petty crimes. The Home Secretary has already ordered 600 places to be made available in secure local authority accommodation in 10 pilot areas and the scheme will go national in September. The policy is having a knock-on effect in the prison population, with 15-year-olds being moved from secure units into prison to make way for the younger arrivals. These, in turn, have displaced young offenders into already overcrowded adult prisons. Author Barry Goldson, a specialist in youth crime policy at Liverpool University, said: 'This is morally reprehensible and cuts across any civilised notion of justice. Children will be imprisoned not because they have committed serious crimes, but for being a nuisance.'