A man convicted of the attempted murder of a nine-year-old boy 27 years ago launched an appeal against his conviction today.Paul Blackburn appealed on the grounds that he did not receive a fair trial by today's standards. The 41-year-old was 15 at the time of his conviction at Chester crown court in 1978, and served 25 years of his life sentence in 18 different prisons. He was released on life licence in 2003. During what is expected to be a two-day hearing before the court of appeal, it will be argued that Mr Blackburn was convicted on the "flimsiest" evidence. The hearing will be told there was no forensic evidence linking him to the crime, that there were no eyewitnesses, and that the victim had been unable to identify his attacker. Mr Blackburn's lawyers will also argue that the confession upon which the conviction relied had been "dragged" out of the then teenager by police, and has been found to be "profoundly unreliable".Tim Owen QC, appearing for Mr Blackburn, told Lord Justice Keene, Mr Justice Newman and Mr Justice Walker that Mr Blackburn's detention had been "clearly prolonged" by his persistent assertions that he was wrongly convicted. "This is one of those cases where the appellant is, in effect, inviting this court to review the standards of a fair criminal investigation and trial by current principles of fairness," Mr Owen told the court. "It is his submission that, judged by current common law standards of fairness, it is plain that he did not receive a fair trial, and that his conviction is accordingly unsafe." Mr Owen said the offence of which Mr Blackburn was convicted was plainly "serious and horrific". A previous challenge to the conviction was rejected by the court of appeal in March 1981. In May 1995, a petition on behalf of Mr Blackburn was submitted to the home secretary, but no grounds for referral were found.Mr Blackburn later applied to the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), the independent body that investigates possible miscarriages of justice. Last August, the CCRC referred his case to the court of appeal after an "extensive review of the original case, including the commissioning of expert reports, forensic tests and interviewing of witnesses". Today, Mr Owen said the court must conclude that, judged by contemporary standards, the circumstances in which Mr Blackburn's admissions were obtained would render them inadmissible. The question, he said, was whether the court could be sure that the jury would inevitably have convicted if they had not had the admissions before them.Earlier today Mr Blackburn, told GMTV: "It has been my whole life, being in prison and fighting my case. I have not had anything else, having been locked up in prison for that long and growing up in prison." He said he had never considered saying he was guilty to secure an earlier release, because it was a matter of integrity. "Of course I am angry about it," he said." The anger can be so self-destructive ...so I try as much as I can to get away from it but you live with it day in, day out."Lord Carlisle QC, for the Crown, said its position was one of "armed neutrality". "Occasionally there are appeals of this kind coming before your court in which it is appropriate for the Crown to support the appeal but we say, after careful consideration, this is not such a case in which the Crown should actively support the appeal," he told the appeal judges. He said that, if any fresh evidence was called, the Crown would test it and point out to the court issues that needed to be considered. "We are here in the classic role of the prosecution, to assist the court," he said.