Police in Greater Manchester arrested 300 people today, the largest number of arrests made by the force during a single operation, in a co-ordinated series of raids by 3,000 officers to round up suspected violent drunken thugs.It marked the launch of a crackdown called Operation Admiral, which will target people who commit offences after drinking heavily. Officers began kicking in the doors of suspects' homes at 4am. An AK-47 was recovered from a property in Stockport.Deputy Chief Constable Simon Byrne, who took part in the raids, said: "We want to send out the message that if you've committed a crime we're after you, and if you're intent on alcohol-fuelled crime you'll see a lot more of this. We know who has committed crimes and we have got the resources in place to arrest them, bring them in and charge them."There has been a big investment from the force and this is about making a statement but it is not a one-off. It's not flash in the pan. You will see the same sort of operations running through the year."Byrne described drink-fuelled violence as one of the most significant problems facing the region, costing taxpayers millions of pounds to put offenders through the courts and provide support to victims. Police chiefs want the initiative to reduce the number of attacks and improve public confidence.The force has dealt with 15,000 violent crimes in the last four months, 1,000 of which have been serious offences, including wounding, grievous bodily harm and murder. About one in four were fuelled by alcohol and arrests had been made in one in three cases.Byrne said police were not seeking to demonise young people. "There is a small minority of parents who either don't care or don't ask. My appeal to them is: where's your conscience, where's your duty? Some encourage their children to drink which is beyond me. We turn up on doorsteps and others have no idea their kids have been out drinking."People are leaving themselves vulnerable to attack or sexual crime and putting themselves at risk of committing crimes. Some of the people who are brought into custody have drunk so much they can't even remember what they've done."