Lucy believed that her partner, a serving Nottinghamshire police officer, was going to work to do a professional job and make a difference. The reality was very different.The man who former colleagues used to joke was a deviant was using the power his uniform gave him to satisfy his predatory sexual desires.When women turned to him as victims of crime, he chose to initiate sex instead, targeting one victim who had called the police after suffering domestic violence, and another who had got in touch when a window in her home was smashed.Investigators later found personal details on his phone of other women with whom he had exchanged more than 2,000 text messages.Lucy, who had a young child with him, had never suspected anything. "It's a bit of a cliche I suppose, but everything was really good, really happy," she said. "I'd just had a baby who was five weeks old. We were just happy."It's taken a long time, but now when I look back I think it wasn't real, he obviously didn't care for me … he obviously didn't care for the kids … It was a lie."Speaking openly about her partner's actions in a film by Nottinghamshire police that will be mandatory viewing for all officers from next month, Lucy said discovering his double life thrust her and her baby into a frightening round of health checks for sexually transmitted infections."My baby was only five weeks old when it happened but he admitted he'd had unprotected sex with victims of crime, which meant then that we were put at risk of STIs," she said."Going to a clinic and being told that potentially if I'd contracted something … I could have passed it on to my baby … and thinking the baby could potentially have been infected with HIV was horrific."As news emerged of her partner's conviction and jail sentence last year she found it hard to face the world. "The first time I went to the supermarket after the papers came out, I cried in the car park. A grown-up woman with kids, but I was too scared to go into the supermarket."She said she was surprised that some people tried to dismiss her partner's behaviour. "A few people made comments that he'd not really done anything wrong other than cheat on me, which again I find really, really scary, that people don't recognise what he's done."There were people that commented: 'Well he shouldn't have done it at work really.' But I don't think people get that these people [his victims] were vulnerable. He was in a position of authority. He abused their trust, he abused the public's trust, and that shocked me that some people didn't really get that aspect of it."In the film, Lucy falters when she talks of having considered suicide because of the betrayal. "There was a moment when I thought about taking my own life, something I'd never ever thought about, and I've got a really good support network."She said she hopes the women exploited by her partner for sex are receiving support. "I don't know how they will get through what he's done. Obviously in order to do that they're going to need support from outside networks which, when the police have abused their position, how do you trust anyone else to give you support? That bothers me a lot."Names have been changed