"Justice has been affronted in a grave way," said Mr Justice Newman, throwing out a case at Nottingham crown court at the end of last month. Five men had been accused of conspiring to kill a convicted armed robber. The affront to justice was that police officers had bugged the men's cells and the exercise yard at two police stations where they were held, and had recorded conversations between the five and their solic- itors. The judge decided that the men could not, as a result, get a fair trial.Last week, an apparently similar case came before the appeal court. Four men had been convicted of carrying out a series of armed robberies in the Coventry area. The police planted bugs in police cells in the hope of catching the men admitting to each other that they had done the crimes - hopes that were fulfilled. So, another grave affront? Not at all. The appeal court ruled that "the police were responding reasonably and proportionately to a very serious threat to the safety of the public and law and order", and that the trial judge had been entitled to allow the evidence to be heard. "One asks why is it perfectly permissible to covertly and illegally tape two prisoners who have been put together in a cell, speaking to each other, but it is not OK to covertly tape a prisoner and solicitor talking to each other," says Robin Pearse Wheatley, a barrister who appeared for two of the men in last week's case. "The distinction seems to be an artificial one." In the Nottingham case, Mr Justice Newman concluded that the police had broken the law by breaching the principle that conversations between lawyers and their clients are privileged. "They have made a mockery of the police caution. They undermined and infringed the statutory right of a defendant to confer with a solicitor in private. His right is meaningless if the officers wait for him to go out with his solicitor so they can go out and listen to what he declined to mention." In the latest case police were also found to have acted unlawfully, by breaching article 8 of the European convention on human rights, which guarantees a right to privacy. However, the appeal court decided that the fact that the evidence had been obtained unlawfully did not mean that it had to be excluded. Robin Pearse Wheatley claims that the bugging of police stations is on the increase - "there has been an absolute spate of these cases" - but it is certainly not a new practice. In 1997, David Howells was convicted, with his two teenage sons, of murdering his wife, their mother. They were left together in a police station visiting room which had been wired for sound. Howells was heard to tell his sons to "bluff it out", although at one stage he also said: "Keep your voice down, 'cos you know they're listening, don't you?" At the trial, his barrister unsuccessfully argued that these conversations should be privileged, as if they had been between barrister and client. Not that privilege necessarily stops the police taping conversations with lawyers. Defence solicitors and prisoners have long suspected that their conversations in prison are recorded, and there is some evidence that, in the case of Belmarsh high-security prison, they are. MI5 whistleblower David Shayler has claimed that an interview in June 1992 between an IRA suspect, Michael O'Brien, and his solicitor, Gareth Peirce, were monitored by Special Branch. Shayler claimed to have been told this in a briefing when MI5 took over counterterrorism duties. Peirce's response was that all lawyers should proceed on the basis that this continues. She said she had sought assurances at the time from the Belmarsh governor that monitoring was not occurring, and was provided with verbal and written guarantees. The value of these guarantees was further thrown into doubt two years ago during a trial at the Old Bailey. In the dock were three Algerians, accused of planning terrorist acts in Britain. During pre-trial hearings, the prosecution barrister admitted that the security services had bugged a consultation between the men and their lawyer. The judge said the principle that such conversations were privileged was important but there was evidence that it happened only in a "single incident" and may have been "wholly innocent". Given the Shayler revelations, that seems unlikely. Secret tapes of conversations between prisoners, by contrast, have long been admitted in evidence, and the practice is so hoary that the wonder is how criminals keep falling for it. In a 1991 case, the police suspected it was too hackneyed to work yet again, and so they staged an elaborate charade in which the investigating officers pleaded with the custody officer not to let the men be put in the same cell together. The custody officer, playing his part in this bit of am-dram, pretended to be uncooperative and insisted that the suspects share a cell, which had been bugged in advance. One of the men's solicitors warned his client to be wary, but as soon as the cell door closed, the men heaved sighs of relief that they had got away with it so far, and started blabbing freely into the hidden microphone. The first recorded case of police station bugging appears to have been in 1962, when two men, Clifford Mills and Peter Rose, were arrested for burglary in Andover. They were placed in separate cells, along with two others who later pleaded guilty. For reasons that are hard to fathom, the four men chose to shout self- incriminating comments to each other along the corridor. The police set up a tape recorder in an empty cell. At the trial, the prosecution did not try to use the recordings as evidence, but did use the notes that an officer had made of the conversation, using the tapes to refresh his memory. Two years later, there was a case in which two men were charged with murder at Leeds assizes. The men, both Pakistani, had gone to Bradford town hall voluntarily at the request of the police, and had been left in a room which contained a hidden microphone. They spoke for about an hour in a Punjabi dialect, and on the basis of this conversation they were convicted. Not that it was a straightforward matter: the tapes had to be translated, first into Urdu and then English; not all the conversation was transcribed; and there were arguments about the reliability of the translation and indeed whether the defendants were indeed the people heard on the tape. In these early cases, the main question was whether tape recordings were reliable evidence at all, and the courts agreed that they were. Whether it was fair to do this sort of thing was another matter, but the judges took a fairly robust line on that, too. "The criminal does not act according to Queensberry Rules," said the appeal court in the Bradford case. "The method of the informer and the eavesdropper is commonly used in the detection of crime. The only difference here was that a mechanical device was the eavesdropper." A formal element of Queensberry Rules was introduced in the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act (Pace), which allowed judges to exclude evidence "if it appears to the court, having regard to all the circumstances including the circumstances in which the evidence was obtained, that it would have such an adverse effect on the fairness of the proceedings that the court ought not to admit it". James Richardson, editor of the criminal law bible Archbold, says: "If the judge felt that this [police behaviour] was an underhand or distasteful way of proceeding, he would frequently rule it out." But a distinction tends to be drawn between deceit, which simply provides a defendant with an opportunity to confess to the offence - for instance, police cell bugging - as opposed to trickery, which positively induces a confession - for instance, falsely telling a suspect that his fingerprints have been found at a crime scene. What, though, of the right to privacy, as guaranteed by the European convention on human rights, and which the judges found last week had been breached by West Midlands police? Pearse Whiteley thinks the failure to exclude evidence obtained in breach of the convention is a dangerous precedent: "There is absolutely no sanction on the police or state authority to comply with the law at the moment." Police station bugging is not regulated by any law, only by Home Office guidelines. Other types of bugging - for instance, the bugging of your home, or the tapping of your telephone - are increasingly covered by laws and regulations, precisely to make them comply with the convention. It would be easy enough for police station bugging to be made lawful simply by bringing it, too, under statutory regulation, a move that the appeal court judges called for last week. The human rights convention is proving a disappointment to defence lawyers in another way, too. Article 6 guarantees the right to a fair trial. But that means convicting the guilty as well as acquitting the innocent, and under the current Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolf, the appeal court has increasingly held that the key to a fair trial is whether the evidence is reliable, not whether it was fairly obtained. "Things have moved on," says James Richardson. "The general sense of fair play, that some things are not cricket, has probably had its day."