An Iraqi Kurd wanted for questioning over an attempted murder and a sexual assault was allowed to stay in Britain despite a recommendation from a judge that he should be deported, it was disclosed last night.Police say Caliph Ali Asmar, 25, is the prime suspect in the case. He was released in March last year after serving part of a two-year sentence for unlawful wounding, possessing an offensive weapon and damage to property.The Home Office said last night he was not among the group of 79 most serious foreign offenders who were released without their deportation being considered. But he is one of 2,000 foreign prisoners who were considered for deportation but allowed to stay in Britain.Although the judge at his original trial recommended him for deportation, the Home Office said it was unable to give a reason last night why he had been allowed to stay.It is believed there are 160 foreign prisoners who were recommended by judges for deportation at their trials but - like Asmar - have not left the country.The Home Office has sent people back to Iraq in the last 18 months but not to Somalia, the country involved in the case of the man wanted for the murder of the Bradford woman police officer.Humberside police yesterday launched an appeal to find Asmar, who is wanted in connection with a stabbing in Hull on Good Friday that left a 38-year-old man needing emergency surgery and an alleged sexual assault on a 15-year-old girl.After eight months in prison, Asmar, who sought asylum in Britain in 2001 but had his application refused a year later, was released for good behaviour. Instead of being sent back to Iraq, he settled in Melville Place, Hull.Police have failed to find him in Hull and said he could have travelled to Sheffield or Birmingham, where he is known to have connections. Officers warned the public not to approach Asmar, who is slim, 1.6 metres (5ft 6in) with black short hair and brown eyes. Described as "dangerous and unpredictable", he has tattoos on his right arm.The stabbing victim, who is believed to be a friend of a woman Asmar had been in a relationship with, was assaulted at 9.30pm on Good Friday when he was stabbed in this shoulder and chest.Police said Mr Asmar may also have been involved in an assault on a 15-year-old girl. "The victim said she was dragged into a car by two males and taken to an address in New Michael Street, Hull," a police spokeswoman said. "It is alleged she was subjected to a serious sexual assault overnight and left the property the following morning."A spokesman for Diana Johnson, the MP for Hull North, said she would raise the case with the Home Office "as a matter of urgency".Humberside police said it could not comment on Asmar's previous convictions.Detective Chief Inspector Mark Oliver, the officer in charge of the manhunt, said: "We do not know where Asmar is. We believe he may have gone to another area of the country. We are liaising with other police forces, the immigration service and probation service."