Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, is to consider whether unduly lenient sentences were imposed on two teenagers who pushed a 16-year-old into a Dorset river, where he drowned.David Berry, who had a water phobia and could not swim, was frogmarched by the two 17-year-olds along the Colber bridge in Sturminster Newton and pushed into the Stour on 9 June last year. Earlier this month Bournemouth crown court was told that when he tried to grab hold of the bridge railings, the teenagers prised his hands away, saying "Berry needs a swim" and "Let's chuck him in". He had been relaxing with friends in the hot weather during his GCSE study leave. There was "panic and pandemonium" as fellow pupils dived in to try to save him. His body was dragged from the river later that day after an extensive search involving Dorset police, fire and ambulance officers. On March 12 the two teenagers were sentenced to 18 months and eight months respectively for manslaughter, sentences which Berry's father John described as an "insult". Yesterday Lord Goldsmith's office confirmed that he would be considering whether the sentences had been too lenient. The attorney general does not have the power to raise the sentences, and the decision whether to refer the case to the court of appeal was expected by April 8. "He will be looking carefully at the question of whether the sentences weren't just lenient but unduly so," his spokeswoman said. "He will also be looking at sentencing guidelines and the circumstances of the case before he makes his decision." The court was told that the two boys had been drinking. One of them had stolen cans of lager from a nearby shop. They were about one and a half times over the drink-drive limit when they decided to throw Berry into the river. Berry was so petrified of water, his father said, that he could not bear splashing his face when he washed, hated washing his hair, and refused to play in the rain. One defendant denied manslaughter while the other pleaded guilty and was given a shorter sentence, the judge giving him credit for his plea and for showing "genuine remorse". Mr Berry said yesterday: "The attorney general is just doing his job and doing something the trial judge should have done in imposing a stronger sentence. "I'm not going to say I'm delighted, because as far as I'm concerned it should never have got to that stage."