One of the leading test cases retried under revised “joint enterprise” rules has resulted in a man being acquitted of murder.Ameen Jogee, 27, was, however, convicted at Nottingham crown court of the manslaughter of former police officer Paul Fyfe in Leicester in June 2011.The verdict represents a significant development for the grassroots organisation Joint Enterprise Not Guilty By Association (Jengba), which led the campaign to overturn convictions and secured the support of the House of Commons justice select committee, the playwright Jimmy McGovern and senior lawyers. Jogee, who has already served five years in prison, had originally been found guilty of murder and sentenced to 20 years in jail. He will be sentenced for the manslaughter conviction on 12 September. The controversial criminal law doctrine permits two or more defendants to be convicted of the same offence, even where they had different levels of involvement. Critics have accused police and prosecutors of using it as a “dragnet” to target young people – often from black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds.This year, the supreme court ruled that for the past 30 years judges had been misinterpreting a key justification for obtaining convictions, confusing the fact that an outcome might be foreseeable with criminal intent.The court of appeal has begun considering a number of test challenges that could have implications for hundreds of prisoners convicted under joint enterprise rules.In the case of Jogee, a retrial was ordered. On Friday, the jury in Nottingham returned a not guilty verdict to murder after more than 13 hours of deliberations. They returned the manslaughter verdict on Monday.Jogee was charged with murder and the alternative charge of manslaughter over the death of Fyfe, a 47-year-old father of three, who was stabbed at the home of his girlfriend.During a two-week retrial, the jury heard that Mohammed Hirsi, then 25, delivered the fatal blow to Fyfe’s heart. The prosecution alleged Jogee “egged on” Hirsi while standing on the doorstep of the property. Jogee denied both counts.During the trial, William Harbage QC, prosecuting, told the jury it was accepted that Hirsi “wielded” the knife but added: “This trial concerns the part played by this defendant and his criminal responsibility.”Felicity Gerry QC, defending, said Fyfe’s death had been a surprise to Jogee, adding: “[He] is not a murderer. He was just in the wrong place at the wrong time.” Gloria Morrison, one of the leading activists in Jengba, said: “It’s a significant victory. If the supreme court had not made the decision it did, he would still be in prison for murder. It means others can appeal to have their sentences reduced. It’s really important that he will not be a convicted murderer now. His mother was in tears on Friday.” Morrison said she was disappointed by the manslaughter conviction because she believed Jogee had been trying to persuade Hirsi to leave the house, not stab Fyfe.Speaking after the verdict, the chief crown prosecutor for the East Midlands, Janine Smith, said she was “satisfied” justice has been done. She added: “Ameen Jogee actively encouraged Mohammed Hirsi in the violent assault against their victim. Although Mohammed Hirsi was responsible for inflicting the fatal injury that killed a former police officer, both were responsible for his death. The appalling nature of this crime has not lessened with time and we are satisfied justice has been done in this case.” DI David Swift-Rollinson, the senior investigating officer in the case, said: “Today’s result is the culmination of a lengthy legal process following Paul’s death five years ago.“While we are satisfied with the verdict that has been reached, this further trial has delayed the closure which Paul’s family and relatives have been seeking.”