A couple who repeatedly raped a 12-week-old baby in their care are expected to receive tougher prison sentences this week after an unprecedented intervention by Britain's most senior judge.Alan Webster, 40, a postman, and his girlfriend, Tanya French, raped and sexually assaulted the three-month-old girl, the daughter of a single mother, while babysitting. Webster kept photographs of the abuse in a 'trophy' album.In January Webster, of Hatfield, Hertfordshire, pleaded guilty to raping the baby four times, indecent assault and making indecent images of the attacks. Described by the judge as 'depraved', he received a sentence of life with a tariff of 12 years, meaning he could be eligible for parole in six. French, 19, who also raped the baby and photographed the abuse, was jailed for five years and given an extended licence period of five years.Sentencing them at St Albans Crown Court, Judge Findlay Baker said: 'These offences were committed against the most vulnerable victim it is possible to imagine, a little baby. There are no words to express the abhorrence such offending generates.' Addressing French, he said: 'You did not shrink away from the acts in which you joined. Rather, you keenly looked forward to them.'A vigorous media campaign followed the case with newspapers calling for the pair to be given much longer sentences. The baby's mother condemned the sentences as 'a joke' and said they should serve at least 25 years for the attacks.The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Phillips, will decide on Wednesday whether to increase the jail terms. Although the government's most senior lawyer, the Attorney General, is often involved in sentencing issues, it is believed to be the first time the Lord Chief Justice has become involved. His verdict could set a precedent for how judges treat guilty pleas.Initially, Webster pleaded not guilty, changing his plea only after being told police had found photographs in his home of the abuse. Phillips must decide whether a distinction can be drawn between those who plead guilty out of remorse and those who do so only once irrefutable evidence destroys their defence.The court heard how the mother of the baby, introduced to French by a friend, initially refused the couple's offer to babysit. She later accepted because she needed help to look after her baby when she moved house and wanted to decorate.Reaching their decision this week, Phillips and five appeal judges will consider the pair's backgrounds. The offences came to light after international law enforcers told police that Webster had downloaded about 7,000 indecent images from the internet. Officers searched his house on 26 July last year and found a photograph album containing images showing the pair committing abuse. The mother was unaware until detectives visited her after finding the photographs.Webster also pleaded guilty to indecently assaulting a 14-year-old girl who was a regular visitor to the home he shared with French in Hatfield.Last month the Attorney-General, Lord Goldsmith, referred the case to the Appeal Court, citing his concerns that the jail terms of Webster and French were 'unduly lenient'.