The demonisation of Maxine Carr began as soon as she was arrested over the deaths of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Some media organisations pointed out she was in the same prison where Rose West was once held. Inevitably, others could not resist drawing a link between Carr and Ian Huntley and Myra Hindley and Ian Brady.The Daily Mail wrote that the deaths of Holly and Jessica had touched the country "as no child murders since the appalling Moors murders of 1965" had done. After Carr, perhaps unadvisedly, admitted in the witness box that she was branded "Myra mark II" by fellow prisoners as she awaited trial, the old pictures of Hindley were dusted down and printed beside images of Carr on the front pages of the Sun and Daily Express. One of the first questions detectives had to ask themselves as they began to puzzle what was behind the killings of Holly and Jessica was how deeply Carr was involved in them. While she could not have had any direct responsibility for their deaths as she was 110 miles away at the time, it was suspected she may have groomed the girls, whom she undoubtedly knew well, for Huntley. Was the alibi she gave Huntley part of a wicked plan? During the six weeks of their trial, Huntley and Carr stood a metre apart in the dock of the Old Bailey, separated by one guard. But they never exchanged a glance, let alone a word. After Huntley's first morning in the witness box, when he told his incredible account of how the girls died in his bathroom, Carr turned to a prison officer and whispered: "I don't believe a word of it." When she took the witness box she could not bear to refer to him as a human being but called him: "That thing." The pair had met in a Grimsby nightclub in 1999. Police later asked her if it was love at first sight. "Dunno, for me maybe," she replied. Her response suggests the relationship was not based on equality. The question of who "wore the trousers" in their relationship surfaced from time to time during the trial. She told one interviewing officer they were a "team". Huntley's counsel, Stephen Coward QC, picked this up in his closing speech, describing her as a "modern woman, mistress of her own mind". The prosecution also pounced on it and was keen to portray her as at least an equal partner and perhaps even the instigator in, for example, the clean-up of the caretaker's house after the girls' disappearance. But there is good evidence that Carr may have largely been controlled by Huntley. Neighbours and friends of the couple claim Huntley tried to dominate her. They paint a picture of a man who would recline on his sofa as Carr ran round him responding to every whim. If she refused his bidding he would lose his temper, sometimes walking out and threatening never to return. On one such occasion in 2001, the year they got engaged, she took an overdose. There is also evidence that Huntley was violent towards her. In her police interview she claimed he had slapped her on one occasion. Friends say this was not an isolated incident. They claim he sometimes clamped his hands over her mouth - just the action the Old Bailey was told Huntley may have used to kill Jessica. He would also hold her in a headlock. Pathologist Nat Cary described such a move when explaining in court how victims were smothered to death. Those who know Carr believe she was prepared to put up with Huntley's attempts to control her and his violence because she believed he could give her the stability her life had so far lacked. Her childhood and early adulthood had been unhappy and insecure. Just like Huntley she changed her name from Maxine Capp to distance herself from her father, farmworker Alfred, after he split from her mother, Shirley, when she was a little girl. Like Huntley she aspired to more in life than she achieved before arriving in Soham, harbouring ambitions of being a teacher but not gaining the necessary qualifications. Again like Huntley, she was disappointed to end up working in Grimsby's fish processing plants and factories. Perhaps most significantly, from an early age she suffered, and indeed continues to suffer, from anorexia. This was accompanied by obsessive compulsive tendencies. As an adult she kept her homes immaculately clean, tidying, changing beds and scrubbing surfaces every day. Before meeting Huntley she threw herself into her social life with abandon. She would get hopelessly drunk and become extremely flirtatious with other nightclubbers. She would still do this after meeting Huntley. On the evening of the girls' deaths she was in a club in Grimsby kissing another man. Carr's closeness to Holly and Jessica had at first attracted the concern of police responsible for finding out how deeply she was involved in their deaths. A few months after the couple arrived in Soham, she offered to help at St Andrew's primary school as a volunteer teaching assistant. She was soon offered a temporary contract and worked with two classes in year five, one of which included Holly and Jessica. Carr tended to "gravitate" towards a group of girls which included Holly and Jessica, said Joy Pederson, the girls' teacher. The young woman was considered "cool" by pupils but was not keeping a proper distance. She would try to - in her words - "help them sometimes and go up to the boys and say, 'You know Holly likes you' and then it would be, 'Oh Miss Carr, what have you done that for?'". During the trial Carr, who longed for children, said that Holly was just the sort of daughter she would have loved to have had. After Carr's application for a full-time post was rejected, Holly cried and made her the now famous card with a smiley face and a poem ending: "CU in the future Miss Carr. Don't leave us. Don't go far." But detectives have found no evidence that Carr groomed the girls or knew in advance Huntley had any plans to try to abduct a girl. She does not appear to have harboured any particularly sinister fantasies. In short, she was no Myra Hindley. Carr was charged with perverting the course of justice and assisting an offender. To prove the second charge the prosecution had to show she must have known that Huntley had killed the girls. Looking back, detectives are amazed at the skill with which Carr spun a complex web of lies as she tried to steer the police away from Huntley. She gave police and journalists a vivid and consistent picture of what she and Huntley did in Soham together on the day Holly and Jessica were murdered. She described at length the meals they ate, the television programmes they watched, the clothes they wore. She could not be caught out, though she knew - Huntley had told her - that the girls had been in the house. There appear to be three possible motives behind Carr's lies. She claimed she lied to protect her boyfriend because she feared his past might prompt the police to frame him for the girls' disappearance. The prosecution alleged she knew he had killed the girls and lied to protect a murderer. She gave Huntley an alibi once before after he was accused of a sex crime. It can also be revealed that the couple collaborated in a systematic fraud which netted them thousands of pounds of housing and sickness benefit. And why did she keep referring to the girls in the past tense during one television interview before their bodies were found? Is it significant that she knew Holly suffered from nosebleeds? Is it possible that she suggested the nosebleed story to Huntley? But there is a third explanation for Carr's actions, which lies somewhere between what those close to her believe and the prosecution's version. Could it be that in her heart of hearts, knowing the man and being presented with the clues which lay around her home - such as the duvet which Huntley had stuffed into the washing machine - she must have realised what had happened but convinced herself he was innocent? Even the two detectives who led the investigation are divided over how much Carr knew. Detective Chief Inspector Andy Hebb said: "Her involvement was greater than a non-active part in covering his trail. She must have been suspicious when she came home. She was being blind to the obvious." But Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson said: "I have a slightly more sympathetic view towards her in that she was reeled into something that was not of her making." The jury also took this view - deciding that while Carr had clearly lied, she had not done so in the knowledge that her fiance had murdered the girls. Those close to Carr claim it was not until early this year that she came to believe he really had killed Holly and Jessica. They say she has become convinced that Huntley did try to sexually assault the girls, probably in their bedroom. But if it is true that Carr refused to believe the truth, that is not to say she did no wrong. She may have lied to herself not just to protect a man she loved but also out of self-interest. She had always dreamed of being a teacher and came close to her wish when she worked as a classroom assistant in Holly and Jessica's school. She had also wanted a secure home and thought she had this with Huntley. For the first time for years, her life seemed on track and it may be she was prepared to convince herself of Huntley's innocence to preserve her future.