Mairead Philpott has had her 17-year prison sentence for killing her six children in a house fire in Derby upheld by the court of appeal.The hearing in Nottingham was the court of appeal's first case outside London to be shown live, with a 70-second delay, on television and websites.Philpott, 32, was jailed alongside her husband Mick in April after being found guilty of the manslaughter of Jade Philpott and her brothers John, Jack, Jesse, Jayden and Duwayne, who were aged between five and 13.Despite losing the first round of her attempt to challenge the length of her sentence, her lawyers succeeded in making a renewed application. Another co-accused, Paul Mosley, abandoned his appeal against the length of his sentence the day before the hearing.Mairead Philpott was not in court. Regulations covering court of appeal broadcasts, which began last month, require cameras to focus only on the judges and lawyers who are presenting their arguments. The feed is on a 70-second delay to prevent any disturbances being broadcast.The new lord chief justice, Lord Thomas, who is keen to take court of appeal sittings outside London, was one of three judges on the bench.Presenting Philpott's appeal, her barrister Shaun Smith QC said: "[Her] utter dependence ... on Mick Philpott, whilst not excusing culpability, legally or morally, was not given sufficient weight in assessing the length of her sentence."  Richard Latham QC addresses the court of appeal, sitting at Nottingham crown court – the first time an appeal court hearing outside London was broadcast live. Photograph: PAMairead, he said, was "particularly vulnerable" to a man like Philpott who specialised in taking advantage of young girls with no family support or self esteem. She had been a loving mother, but would forever be known as a child killer; her sentence would be "a lifetime reminder of her inability to stand up to a disturbingly dangerous man".Announcing the court's decision, Thomas said that although Mairead Philpott was under the control of her domineering husband, she was on occasions capable of standing up to him. She had, however, chosen to support his plan to set fire to the house and blame it on her husband's former mistress."This was not a spur of the moment plan," Thomas said. "It was one that had been carefully and deliberately thought out. The risks of pouring petrol inside a building and setting it alight must have been obvious. Her children were upstairs. She actually participated in setting the fire as petrol was found on her clothes."She was capable of standing up. She could make a choice. She had a responsibility that was not overborne by the will of Michael Philpott." Her husband was jailed for life with a minimum term of 15 years.The broadcast was cut off abruptly after the decision to uphold her sentence was announced, when applause and clapping erupted in court.The following case to come before the court of appeal judges was partially, and inadvertently, broadcast online before judges had time to consider whether it should be televised. The live feed was cut off before that hearing ended.Before the appeal, the courts minister, Shailesh Vara, said: "This is another landmark day for justice. For the first time cameras will be able to live broadcast a court hearing outside of London."It will give people across the country the opportunity to see and hear the decisions of judges sitting in Nottingham, which is a significant step towards achieving our aim of having an open and transparent justice system."Justice must be seen to be done and today marks another important step towards opening up the court process to bring justice closer to the public."However, we will always balance the need to make the justice system more accessible with the needs of victims and witnesses. That is why we will ensure that throughout the court process, they will not be filmed."