They call them "girls". "And in Holloway they called you lassies," groans Sam. "I turned round and said: 'I'm not an old dog.'" Kathrine giggles. "I got called Fanny the other day - my mum used to call me that when I was younger." "There's one officer on this wing, because my surname is Knight, keeps calling me Gladys," Sam bats back, rolling her eyes and pressing a hand to her forehead. "If we said that to him, we'd get on report." There are things about a prison: the smell of sour milk and detergent, the ugly-making brightness of the lights, every moment punctuated by signings, lockings, unlockings. And there are particular things about a women's prison. Aggression is subdued to bitching and pettiness and cuts on people's arms. Social exclusion is not just about the colour of your skin or the emptiness of your purse, but about who is looking after your baby. And they call them "girls". "I feel like a little kid again. You have to jump when they say jump, you have to bite your tongue when you get angry," says Sam Knight, who is 20. She is handsome, funny and articulate, and serving a four-year sentence in Bulwood Hall, near Southend - one of Britain's 16 women's prisons - for importing cocaine. It was her first offence. "It gets me angry being in here. They're wasting my time. I know I've done a crime and I wouldn't do it again. But I'm working my butt off in here, my daughter's out there, and I could be with her. I don't know why I did it. But someone's waving a wad of money in your face and you know someone who's done it before, no probs. No one got hurt. Four years for a first offence . . . " She trails off. The female population is the fastest-growing section of the prison estate. It has more than doubled in six years, rising to 3,392 in 1999. It is an extraordinary increase, particularly when the facts about women and prison are considered. We know that the majority of women offenders pose a low risk to the public. We know that imprisoning mothers has a disproportionately disruptive effect on family life. We know that because the number of women in prison is relatively small, inmates are held far from home and their access to suitable regimes is restricted. We know that women react more adversely to custody than men, not least because of the higher incidence of mental-health problems among female prisoners. We know that more than half the women in prison have experienced physical or sexual abuse. So why are we locking up more of the most vulnerable people in the country? It is difficult to tease out the reasons. Despite the recent moral panic about girl gangs, the rise in violent offences is negligible. Most women in prison are not that dangerous - the most common crimes are theft or handling stolen goods, together with fraud and forgery, although the number of women sentenced for drug offences has risen dramatically. This increase is largely the result of the courts' new emphasis on deterrence, but another factor, according to Pat Carlen, professor of sociology at Bath University, is the number of women in poverty. "Women have totally different experiences of crime: they don't mix with criminals, don't think of themselves as criminals and their criminal careers are shorter and less violent. It's personal circumstances that get women into prison." Ms Carlen argues that women are doubly punished for offending against stereotypical ideas of how "nice" girls behave. Twice as many women as men are imprisoned for a first offence. Such as Knight. Her three-year-old daughter is living with her father. She is one of the third of mothers in prison with a child under the age of five. It is much easier if you have support from a family, she explains. "I've got my baby's father, my mum, my dad, my brothers and sisters. I've got a lot, but it's still hard because I keep feeling like I've got to rely on them. I'm asking for things from them, but they didn't put me here." There could never be a television series called Blokes of a Feather, says Chris Tchaikovsky of the pressure group Women in Prison. "More than 80% of women stand by their men when they are inside, compared with just 17% of men. Many don't have families to help them either because they come from state care. So there's a huge qualitative difference on a day-to-day level, in terms of getting letters, pictures and money. "But the greatest pain is separation from children, and the ongoing concerns about housing and resettlement that stem from that. For men, losing your home doesn't necessarily mean losing your kids." Women also feel a loss of function in prison, says Ms Carlen, as the rules and regulations cut across their domestic domain. They find it much harder to be regimented, particularly around household issues such as eating, while the lack of hygiene and privacy affects them much more. "I haven't sat on a toilet seat for 19 months," laughs Knight. "I can't even use the toilet paper in there, I have to bring my own from my room. It's the little things you miss, like eating with a knife and fork - we have to eat with plastic." The quality of the food concerns her. "The chicken is all watery, it's not cooked. The rice tastes tough and it's not washed properly. At lunchtime I try and eat a little of the chips and sausage, but apart from that I buy my tuna and crackers and do my thing in my room." Some of your pride disappears in prison, she says. "Like with strip searches, even when you're on your period . You just feel like you've got no self-respect. Because it's other women doing it to you. To have to strip when they say strip, for them to come and search your room and pull up your bed." "It's so degrading," adds Astrid Vildgaard. "When you get strip-searched, all that day and the day after is ruined because you go so low. They do it every month." Vildgaard, 19, is also serving a sentence for drug importation. From Denmark, she is one of the foreign nationals who make up 15% of our female prison population. Nearly three-quarters of foreigners are convicted of drug offences and serving significantly longer sentences than their British counterparts. "When I got arrested, I couldn't speak the language," says Vildgaard. She is now fluent, especially in expletives. There are two key questions, says Chris Wilkinson of the Scarman Centre at Leicester University. "Why do certain groups of women - foreign nationals, first-time offenders, women with mental health problems - find themselves in prison? We need to focus on the factors that lead them there and then look at the alternatives offered by the probation service. Second, what are their needs once in prison, and are those needs the same as men's? Women in prison are disadvantaged, damaged and dependent. Many self-harm. All too often prison serves to exacerbate the problems that have led women to offend in the first place." The staff of Bulwood Hall certainly appear to be trying to meet those needs, with a healthcare centre, an education block, a gym and a wing where vulnerable prisoners - first-timers who are finding it difficult to cope, self-harmers, the elderly - have more intensive care. There is a hairdressing salon where women can study for a National Vocational Qualification and a fashion studio where they learn dressmaking and put on a fashion show each year. A variety of drug treatment and counselling programmes are available, as well as the enhanced thinking skills course, a national programme that deals with "cognitive deficits". Ms Wilkinson is sceptical about such courses. "They individualise and pathologise women, and allow for no recognition of the structural problems of society that force them to live in awful poverty and in abusive situations. It's all about managing your anger, and not about having £2 in your pocket to feed your kids." Kathrine Samuel says it is boring at Bulwood Hall. She is not "enhanced" - she has not yet been granted privileges - so has no television in her room. Mostly, she sleeps. Samuel is 16 and serving six months for street robbery. She and her friends ran off with a girl's bag, she tells me, and when the police came looking for them she got caught. It was her first offence. She will be out in March. Her baby is due in May. She is a tiny thing, with a sparkling stud in her lip. She has the softest voice. I don't doubt that she has the capacity to be a right cow. But she wants to buy things for the baby and can't. Last February, the Prison Reform Trust published its report, Justice for Women. The result of an extensive independent inquiry into the state of women's prisons and their inmates, it concluded that there was "an overwhelming case" for the reduction in the use of imprisonment for women offenders: "They are women who the system has failed time and time again. These women are socially excluded. Imprisonment will only isolate them further." Women like Samuel, and children like her unborn child. "I had my own flat," she says. "But they took it off me. I don't know where I'll stay when I get out. I suppose I might go to a mother and baby unit."