Plans to re-establish a dedicated war crimes unit within Scotland Yard have been shelved because of cost and concerns about who should pay.Officials within the Metropolitan police have revealed that they are being asked to investigate so many war crimes suspects by the Home Office and security services that a unit with its own detectives, office staff and travel budget could be justified. The Met disbanded its war crimes unit in 1999 after a series of controversial investigations and trials. War crimes investigations that do occur are undertaken by officers in the anti-terrorist squad.Having previously focused on suspects from the second world war, most of the atrocities being referred to the force now relate to events in eastern Europe and African trouble-spots such as Rwanda and Sierra Leone. The Met proposed to spend £1.1m on seven additional staff and to fund the necessary overseas travel. But the attempt to re-prioritise war crimes investigations fell foul of the new budgetary policies being laid down by London's mayor, Ken Livingstone, and the Metropolitan Police Authority (MPA). While both see the value in such inquiries, they increasingly believe that the government expects Scotland Yard to undertake a range of special activities without making enough funding available for it to do so without detriment to the service it provides in London. The previous war crimes unit received Home Office funding. The Met's senior management team, led by Commissioner Sir John Stevens, has resolved to seek funding from the Home Office to pay for cases which take the workload above "current activity levels". Alternatively, when Home Office funding is not forthcoming, one-off investigations will be funded by the Yard through its own reserves. Eric Ollerenshaw, a member of the MPA, said: "There are a lot of these investigations going on and there are expected to be a lot more, given the sort of trials being conducted at the Hague, the wars in the Balkans and following on from the war in Iraq. One accepts that this may need to be done but it should not be the London council tax payer who foots the bill." A source at the mayor's office said the decision to abandon the expansion plans was made by Scotland Yard. "The mayor thinks war crimes should be dealt with but it is evidently a national responsibility." The last war crimes unit was set up following the introduction of the War Crimes Act of 1991. It spent more than £11m investigating 376 cases. Anthony Sawoniuk, 78, a former British Rail ticket inspector was given two life sentences in April 1999 after Britain's only successful trial involving second world war crimes. He was found guilty at the Old Bailey of two specimen charges of murdering 18 Jews. Szymon Serafinowicz, a retired carpenter living in Surrey was alleged to have taken part in the massacre of Jews in Belarus. He was arrested and charged in July 1995 but his trial collapsed in January 1997, when the jury ruled that Serafinowicz, by then 86, was not mentally fit. But cases have continued to be pursued. In 2000, Lieutenant Colonel Tharcisse Muvunyi, a former Rwandan military officer was arrested in London and deported to face genocide charges at the International Criminal Tribunal in Arusha, Tanzania. He had been in charge of a military academy in the southern Rwandan town of Butare, when the genocide of up to 750,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus was carried out by extremist Hutus in 1994. In February, Scotland Yard began investigating claims that an elderly academic living in south London trained as a Nazi SS guard and was present at two of the worst civilian massacres during the second world war. Three months later a war crimes inquiry was launched into events 50 years ago in Kenya, where British officials are accused of involvement in atrocities during the Mau Mau insurgency.