Most hardened lags coming to the end of their stretch inside would be minded to keep their heads down. Not Tony Blair. Ten years into his term, the prime minister yesterday came up with some fresh ideas for tackling the threat of terrorism. They include giving police officers in the UK the power to stop and interrogate individuals about their identity and their movements. Those questioned need not be suspected of any crime, yet failure to comply could land them with a criminal conviction and a fine of £5,000.New powers they may be, but the thinking behind them is well-worn. For Mr Blair further erosion of individual freedoms is a fair trade for greater security against the threat of terrorism. "We have chosen as a society to put the civil liberties of the suspect ... first," he wrote yesterday and warned: "This extremism, operating the world over, is not like anything we have faced before. It needs to be confronted with every means at our disposal." Few dispute that the terrorist threat in this country is formidable: the Crevice trial, which concluded last month, gave us more evidence of that. What is doubtful is the efficacy of Mr Blair's prescription. The Crevice investigation was intelligence-led; giving police arbitrary powers to stop whoever they want, without even the fig leaf of "reasonable suspicion" they currently require, could poison community relations and so choke off crucial sources of intelligence. Section 44 of the Terrorism Act 2000 already allows for widespread use of stop and search. These powers have been useful in shaking down youths with knives and disrupting anti-war demos - even in getting 82-year-old Walter Wolfgang ejected from a Labour party conference. But they have not resulted in a single terrorist conviction. Extending them further, so that police can ask whoever they want to prove their identity, dovetails all too well with the introduction of ID cards further down the tracks and looks the very definition of draconian.Mr Blair's argument for extending police powers echoes Dick Cheney's One Per Cent doctrine: the US vice-president's epigram that, if there's even a 1% probability of the unimaginable coming to pass, act as if it is a certainty. This assertion ignores the effect of getting it wrong the other 99% of the time. With stop and search, the risk is that a minority is targeted and alienated. In the 1980s, under the old "sus laws", which this new proposal closely resembles, that was young black men; this time, it will be British Asians. That is already happening under section 44, which is why the Metropolitan Police Authority told a select committee of MPs in 2005: "It has increased the level of distrust in our police. It has trampled on the rights of too many Londoners. It has cut off valuable sources of community information and intelligence." On existing evidence, therefore, stop and search not only fails to achieve its objective in battling terrorism; it is counterproductive, driving a wedge between the forces of law and order and a community they need to keep tabs on. No wonder that, as we report today, neither Scotland Yard, nor the Association of Chief Police Officers officially asked ministers for this extension. Indeed, police and counterterrorism experts are increasingly worried about the scope for abuse of existing powers. These concerns may resonate with Gordon Brown, who spoke this weekend of the need for terrorism to be defeated by engaging the public.Tony McNulty, the police minister, maintained yesterday that these proposals would be fully consulted on so that they could be got right. A shame, then, they first saw the light of day in a Sunday newspaper, before even cabinet ministers had been fully briefed. This smacks of kite-flying by two demob-happy men, Tony Blair and John Reid, who step down in a month. Mr Brown should not be bounced into following their lead.