A decade has passed since Nadine Milroy-Sloan was jailed for three years, for having made false accusations of rape against Neil and Christine Hamilton, the famous media couple. Her preposterous story had been disseminated, via an exclusive in the News of the World, by the publicist Max Clifford (shortly to stand trial for alleged sexual assaults) who subsequently paid the Hamiltons undisclosed damages for related disobliging remarks of his own. Having thus been financially as well as legally vindicated, Mr Hamilton told the press, in 2005, that he and his wife just "wish to put this episode behind us".At this point, most of the world forgot about Nadine Milroy-Sloan.Last week, however, Christine Hamilton chose to refresh our memories, without mentioning the former's jail sentence, during a Newsnight discussion inspired by the actor Bill Roache. Prior to being charged with the rape of a 15-year-old, he had called for anonymity in rape cases to be extended to the accused. The Hamiltons' story, a distinctly cautionary one, you might think, for anyone planning to fabricate rape accusations, appears to Ms Hamilton, on the contrary, powerfully to support the Roache view. The perjurer's actions show, she says, that "some women, they cry wolf", as if this were a significant threat to justice, rather than, as Keir Starmer, the outgoing director of public prosecutions, recently said, "extremely rare". As for the innocent, Hamilton believes, the reputational damage is irreparable. Take Roache: "He's an internationally known star, his name has now gone right round the world."She might have said the same of another, almost as famous star, Stuart Hall, had he not pleaded guilty to multiple sex offences last week. And had Jimmy Savile continued to be as protected in death as he was in life, by police and loyal BBC colleagues, the late child abuser's unblemished reputation might have been an equally good excuse for anonymity. On this basis, in fact, there seems no good reason to identify anyone charged or arrested for anything, from phone-tapping to the suborning of public servants: welcome news to some journalists. Of course, in his report, Lord Justice Leveson rather warmed to the idea of anonymous arrests, which is also being considered by the membership of the Association of Chief Police Officers.As well as Neil, Leveson and the police, Christine Hamilton has public opinion behind her. In the Independent last week, a poll showed that three out of four people think that those accused of sexual assaults should be granted anonymity. Maybe the coincidence of Savile and Leveson, with details of the former's sexual abuse published at the same time as revelations about press deviancy, helps explain why, when there could hardly be a clearer illustration of the cost to justice of further anonymity, privacy should look more appealing.With Leveson's recommendations yet to be activated, lawyers for Operation Yewtree's interviewees have certainly exploited the public's post-Leveson disgust about deplorable press behaviour, to the point of attempted censorship. "There is no public interest in such an article," wrote operatives from Harbottle & Lewis, attempting to prevent the reporting of Rolf Harris's arrest, "as is entirely self-evident following publication of the Leveson report."If justice for Stuart Hall's victims was in the public interest, then that simply could not have been achieved, as the police said last week, without identification. Had he stayed anonymous, women could not have come forward, there would have been no pattern of behaviour, only, at best, random, unverifiable encounters, from another century. The member of the public who seems to have started the Hall inquiry, with a letter to the columnist Yasmin Alibhai-Brown, wrote: "The furore over Jimmy Savile has spurred me on." If Harbottle & Lewis's definition of public interest were officially adopted, we would never even have heard from Stuart Hall, as charges against him multiplied, on his living nightmare: "May I just say these allegations are pernicious, callous, cruel and, above all, spurious."Whatever – hatred of the press, myths about false accusations, some notion of fair-dos, sentimentality about old men – explains the current enthusiasm for extending anonymity to people accused of sexual offences, its implementation would restore a legal anomaly of the mid-70s, created by the very culture in which Savile was untouchable and his victims expected no sympathy.Actually, even in 1975, the idea was retrograde: a proposal of anonymity for rape victims by the Heilbron committee, designed to help more women come forward, was altered by a backbencher's amendment to provide "equal" anonymity for defendants. Within a few years, the criminal law revision committee dismissed that argument, "despite its superficial attractiveness", and anonymity for the accused was repealed in 1988. The last serious attempt to reinstate the law of the 70s came in 2010, courtesy of the coalition, a year after the black-cab driver John Worboys was jailed for drugging and raping women passengers. After his arrest, 85 women came forward to say he had attacked them; several gave evidence at his trial.The reason the public has heard no more about the coalition's plan, which featured bravely in its programme for government – "we will extend anonymity in rape cases to defendants" – was that a Ministry of Justice report, commissioned to assess current research, found "insufficient reliable empirical findings on which to base an informed decision". Since when, Keir Starmer has supplied at least some relevant data, indicating that the number of false accusations is continually exaggerated. In practice, he says, such overestimates can lead to such stringent testing of victims' reports that this, in turn, "can lead to injustice for victims".It was, after all, the ostensibly high standards of evidence required at Operation Sapphire, the Met's discredited sex crime team, that allegedly led to around 30 women having their cases dropped. A detective was jailed for falsifying records and failing to investigate rape, but not before reports to Sapphire had dropped by 14%.With no evidence in its favour, the case for extended anonymity reverts, as it has since the 70s, to the argument that, since alleged rape victims have somehow lucked out, identification-wise, the accused deserve an equal and compensatory bonus. It makes about as much sense as boys saying they should be allowed to wear skirts to school. Out of a curious notion of parity with individuals who might not otherwise report attacks, the accused are to enjoy protection that, unless extended to other reputation-besmirching allegations, implies that rape accusations are more likely than any others to be unfounded.It is to avoid stigmatising the innocent that Maura McGowan, the chairman of the Bar Council, now argues for this curtailment of open justice. So long as death is considered a fate worse than rape, it would be unfair, surely, to deny the same courtesy to alleged murderers, ditto paedophiles, genital mutilators and sex traffickers.As for an ineradicable stain: like many other people, no disrespect to Neil and Christine Hamilton, but I only ever associate the name Hamilton with brown envelopes stuffed with Mohamed al-Fayed's £50 notes. • This article will be opened for comments on Sunday morning