The victim of a suspected homophobic attack in Trafalgar Square died in hospital last night after his life support machine was switched off.Police have launched a murder investigation today after Ian Baynham, 62, suffered severe brain damage after being kicked and punched on the ground near the South African high commission, in central London two weeks ago.Baynham was walking with a 30-year-old friend when a woman began shouting homophobic abuse at him. He went to talk to the woman but she attacked him and her male friend is said to have punched him and then kicked him as he lay on the floor. A second young woman was involved in the incident.Baynham, from Beckenham, south-east London, died in hospital when doctors switched off his life support machine, more than a fortnight after the attack, which happened on 25 September.Police are hunting for the three, said to be teenagers, who were captured on CCTV arguing with Baynham and his friend, who was later treated for minor injuries.The two men had just got off a number 24 bus in Duncannon Street, on their way to a night out in the West End, when the attack occurred.The three attackers, described as two white, blonde females, aged 16-20, and a thin, black male of a similar age, had been sitting in the area before the attack and were last seen walking south on the east side of Trafalgar Square towards The Strand. The trio are also suspected of shouting verbal abuse at other people, according to police.Baynham's death comes after police warnings that homophobic crimes in the capital are on the increase.In July, the commissioner of the Metropolitan pPolice, Sir Paul Stephenson, said the force's response to such crimes was "light years" ahead of what it was in the past, and victims were more willing to report offences.Homophobic crimes have increased by almost 14%, an extra 39 offences, since April in the Metropolitan police area, and there has also been an increase nationally.Homophobic attacks have already claimed two lives in London in the past year. Gerry Edwards, 59, was stabbed to death at his flat in Bromley, south-east London, in March. His long-term partner also suffered stab wounds.In November 2008, David Cooper, 28, was beaten to death at his flat in Woolwich, south-east London. He had been drinking in Soho the night before his murder.Councillor Daniel Astaire, of Westminster city council, said he was "extremely concerned" by the attack on Baynham. "While such incidents are extremely rare in Westminster, we do not tolerate any violence or homophobia of any kind," he said. "We will offer any support we can to the police to help catch those responsible and work with the local community to help prevent any such attack occurring again."We are incredibly proud of Soho's vibrant gay community, which welcomes visitors from around the world and is an essential part of the area's rich heritage. We are confident the local community will rally round and not be intimidated by this mindless, abhorrent act of violence which tragically resulted in an innocent man losing his life."