Three street robbers who inflicted sadistic and gratuitous torture on their victims were jailed for life yesterday after a judge told them they appeared addicted to violence.For months, the gang roamed the streets of London at night, armed with guns, knives and baseball bats, threatening to torture and kill people unless they handed over their valuables and bank pin numbers.One man was so paralysed with fear that he could not remember his pin number, so his attackers stamped on his arm until it broke. Another victim who suffered a similar memory lapse was repeatedly scorched with a cigarette lighter.Judge Witold Pawlak, sentencing the gang at Wood Green crown court, said they treated their victims like characters in an arcade game, terrifying them into believing they were about to die.The robbers seized pedestrians and motorists and beat them senseless, telling them they would be shot, have their throats slit, eyes gouged out or be burned alive if they did not comply with their assailants' demands.Pedro Frota, 19, Robert Lincoln, 18, and 22-year-old Safia Majera, all from east London, received life sentences. Frota's older brother, Luis, 23, got four and a half years for his lesser role.Judge Pawlak said Frota, who is Portuguese, Lincoln, a Jamaican national, and Majera, from Rwanda, must serve at least seven years before being considered for parole. "Your crimes were usually late at night. You hunted in a pack and your violence was sadistic and gratuitous. In fact, each of you is addicted to violence and you treated your victims as though they were characters in an arcade game."Francis Sheridan, prosecuting, said it was clear from taunts and threats made to some of the victims, several of whom were Asian, that racial hatred and homophobia played a part in the gang's selection process.Between them, the four men admitted a total of 17 robberies, one charge of assault with intent to rob and two counts of handling stolen goods. All the offences took place between August 31 and December 4 last year.All four, who have a total of 36 previous convictions between them, face deportation on completion of their sentences. Majera and Lincoln, who admitted taking part in 10 robberies each, had been out of prison only a few months before they embarked on their latest crime spree.After sentencing Pedro Frota for the four robberies he admitted and Luis Frota for one attack and two charges of handling stolen goods, Judge Pawlak said none of the four was welcome in Britain any longer."Your continued presence in the UK is a real threat to the public," he said. "You have increased the risk to the public as your crimes are serious and brutal. It is against the public interest for you to remain in the UK and I recommend you be deported or expelled."