The hunt for money laundering gangs has been given a boost this year by a near-doubling in the number of suspicious transaction reports from the finance industry, detectives said yesterday. A jump in the number of reports to 60,000 is expected by the end of the year as companies including banks, stockbrokers, financial advisers, casinos and bureaux de changes react to demands for information in the wake of the terrorist attacks in New York on September 11 2001. But police warned that the continued reluctance of accountants and solicitors to file reports of suspicious transactions was a cause for concern. Detective chief superintendent James Perry, who heads the Metropolitan police financial intelligence unit, said: "I'm happy with some sections [of the financial community] more than others," he said. "We work closely with the British Bankers' Association and have begun to work more closely with the insurers. And though we know the Institute of Chartered Accountants is keen to work with us, accountants and solicitors still have a problem filing reports." In the summer, the national criminal intelligence service said it was "frustrated" that the two professions had done relatively little to help the police since September 11 2001. It accused many firms of not making appropriate checks to ensure that their clients were honest people dealing with legitimate funds. Figures for 2001 show that only 1% of the total 31,000 were referrals from lawyers, while accountants could only manage 0.35% - half the amount of 1998. So far this year Scotland Yard has arrested more than 130 people for alleged money laundering, 59 of whom have been charged. They have seized around £10m. The latest estimates from the US treasury is that $50bn (£32bn) is laundered across the world each year. During the last two weeks three accountants, one solicitor and four company directors have been arrested in connection with money laundering offences. Mr Perry pointed to laundering by eastern European gangs, including Albanians and Kosovans, as a growing problem in London. "We are seeing an increase of money laundering from these gangs. They exist as organisations because they have financial support. Without financial support, these organisations cannot exist." He echoed comments by the home secretary, David Blunkett, who said yesterday that international crime gangs from the Balkans were "more organised than we are". Mr Blunkett admitted the gangs, who control drug dealing, prostitution rackets and people-smuggling, posed a major problem for international law enforcement. The home secretary told an international conference on organised crime in the Balkans that the gangs were already engaged in "open warfare" on the streets of London. Earlier this month Mr Blunkett published a new criminal justice bill that will end the universal right to trial by jury for serious crimes such as money laundering.