Tony Blair will spend the weekend on the telephone at Chequers mediating between the Treasury and a handful of spending ministers, such as David Blunkett, in the final countdown to Monday's comprehensive spending review.Downing Street played down the significance of the prime minister's role yesterday, saying that he would merely be on hand to help with the "fine-tuning" of the review before Gordon Brown delivers his statement to MPs on Monday afternoon. But it is understood that minor haggling is likely to continue over the weekend between Mr Blunkett and the Treasury over the Home Office's three-year settlement. The two sides were said to have all but sealed a deal last night to fund Mr Blunkett's ambitious plans to increase the number of police and to build centres for asylum seekers and modern prisons. But Mr Blunkett, who enjoys notoriously bad relations with the chancellor, was still maintaining the pressure last night. Throughout the negotiations the home secretary has insisted that the government has to be prepared to take expensive steps if it is to salvage its reputation on crime. He has pressed for a increase in prison places by 10,800 over the next three years and a doubling of the probation service. In talks which were described as bumpy, the Treasury is understood to have argued that the Home Office should make more use of existing measures, such as home detention curfews. One area of negotiation which was still in play last night were the public service agreements Mr Blunkett will have to sign with the Treasury. These are targets the Home Office has to agree before the Treasury will release cash. The deal which Mr Blunkett secures will be closely examined to see whether his high risk strategy of confronting the chancellor in public - he recently dubbed Mr Brown the "money god" - has paid off. The home secretary, who is widely believed to have overplayed his hand, suffered a setback when Paul Boateng was appointed Treasury chief secretary in the recent reshuffle. Mr Boateng is a former prisons ministers who knows every negotiating trick deployed by the Home Office. While Mr Blunkett will mount a major offensive on Monday to talk up his deal, other spending ministers will have little difficulty in portraying themselves as winners. The field will be led by Alan Milburn, the health secretary, who secured a 7.4% increase in NHS spending ahead of inflation over the next five years in April's Budget, and by Estelle Morris, the education secretary. Ms Morris, who has secured major funding to revolutionise secondary schooling, will demonstrate her confidence by appearing with the chancellor on the BBC children's Newsround programme immediately after the chancellor's statement. Mr Brown and Ms Morris, who finally brokered their deal on Thursday after a meeting with Mr Blair on Wednesday, will field questions from schoolchildren from across the country. The education secretary will tell teenagers of her plans to "yank up" the standards of specialist secondary schools by setting up 300 "advance schools" which will be led by superheads with extra funding. There are plans for 990 specialist schools, a figure which could increase to more 2,000 within five years. The prime minister yesterday underlined his determination to press ahead with plans to ensure that more than half of secondary schools are specialist by the next parliament. In a speech to students in Middlesbrough, Mr Blair said: "Our ambition is to replace the 'one size fits all' comprehensive with secondary schools that can develop the talents of each pupil." The winners' enclosure on Monday will also include Margaret Beckett, the rural affairs secretary, who is said to have won her battle to secure hundreds of millions of pounds to regenerate farming in the wake of the foot and mouth crisis. Mrs Beckett is understood to have won the chancellor's agreement to fund the £500m Curry recommendations for the future of farming, though the Treasury will hold back the full funding until a series of two-year pilot schemes have been completed. Other winners include Geoff Hoon, the defence secretary, who has secured an extra £1bn a year for his £24bn budget, and Clare Short, the international development secretary, who will receive extra money to tackle poverty in Africa. Other ministers, who will have to prove they are winners, include: · Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, who is being written up as a loser. But the Treasury has a habit of briefing against the Foreign Office which is then usually happy with its allocation. · Patricia Hewitt, the trade and industry secretary. Sources in her department denied there had been a row and insisted that there would be a significant boost for science. · Alistair Darling, the transport secretary, who is said to have a tough round of negotiations. But much of his budget was settled two years ago when the 10-year transport plan was agreed.