Police investigating the murder of a woman who was house-sitting in a picturesque Sussex coastal village are conducting house-to-house inquiries and forensic searches.Valerie Groves, 55, was found dead on Monday having suffered a "significant head injury" at the detached house in Smuggler's Lane, Bosham. The village has fewer than 3,000 residents but is a popular base for south-coast sailing enthusiasts, since it sits on a tidal estuary that forms part of Chichester harbour.With three other members of her family, she was house-sitting over Christmas for the owners, who were on holiday abroad. Groves, who lived in Bracklesham Bay, a few miles away, was found by a relative, who called the emergency services. Police say she was divorced with two adult children, who live elsewhere in the country. They have been told of her death. A postmortem examination will be held on Wednesday to establish the cause of her death.Detective Superintendent Nick May, from the Surrey & Sussex major investigation team, said: "This is a significant event for the area and traumatic for Valerie's family, who are being supported by specially trained officers."At this stage we are keeping an open mind as to the motive but we are appealing for witnesses who may have seen anyone acting suspiciously or anything unusual in the area from late afternoon on Sunday 29 December to around 10am on Monday 30 December."Please call us if you know anything, no matter how insignificant you might think it is. It could be important to the investigation."We are looking at different lines of inquiry as we are still in the early stages of the investigation. We are carrying out house-to-house inquiries, forensic searches and speaking to people who knew the victim."May said police could not at this stage confirm or deny whether there had been a break-in. "We are still investigating a number of inquiries and are treating it as murder," he said. "We haven't ruled anything out and will continue to investigate."The home's owners have been named locally as Malcolm and Jane Chamberlain. The couple are directors of an electronic component manufacturing company. Malcolm Chamberlain, 66, is also listed as a director of the upmarket health and fitness centre Xpect. The house, called Hove To, was last sold in June 2000 for £745,000 according to property websites.A neighbour, who did not wish to be named, said: "They [the owners] have people staying in the house while they are away for the holidays. It could be friends; it could be family. It is not rented out. People come because it is a nice place to visit. We do not know who they were. They have been there since Christmas."There were cars parked in the drive. They were entirely well behaved. They came gently and went gently. We heard absolutely nothing."She said they had first realised something had happened when they saw an ambulance and police cars parked outside the property, which has a children's playground and football posts in the garden.She said: "We looked across and saw the ambulance and three police cars, believed something was amiss, and we worked out what had happened, but we know no more. I am just very sad for our neighbours and for everybody. You can't imagine coming back from holiday to this. It must be just horrendous."Speaking of the owners, she added: "They are just a very nice family, very nice neighbours. It's just very sad for them."The older part of the village, which has appeared in an episode of the Midsomer Murders TV drama, dates back to at least Roman times. It also features on the Bayeux Tapestry: King Harold is said to have sailed from there in 1064 in a failed attempt to end William of Normandy's claims to the English throne.The discovery of a Saxon grave in the church led to speculation that Harold was even buried in the local church, although the Church of England diocese of Chichester refused permision for an exhumation in 2004.Chief Inspector Tanya Jones, Sussex police's district commander for Chichester, said: "This is a rare incident for Bosham, which is a safe area. We have increased our neighbourhood policing patrols in the village, and if anyone has any information or concerns, I would urge them to speak to one of the officers who are there."