The world's biggest banks are joining an international effort to crack down on child pornography on the internet by taking action to cut off its sources of financing.Last month at the meeting of the International Monetary Fund - an annual gathering of the most powerful international financiers - up to 50 of the world's largest financial institutions were canvassed for their views.The UK's financial community was yesterday urged to join the campaign and hammer out solutions to a business estimated to be worth between $5bn and $20bn (£2.7bn and £10.7bn) globally - six times larger than the online music trade.Large banks in the UK are being asked to join a financial coalition against child pornography, and back its "light a million candles" awareness campaign, by Standard Chartered, the London-based bank which does most of its business in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, and which led the series of meetings at the IMF.Mike DeNoma, Standard Chartered's head of consumer finance, wrote to the British Bankers' Association yesterday urging it to join the international campaign. The father of six has made the issue a personal crusade after being introduced to the subject by his sister who was doing some charity work in the US."We are aiming for the commercial eradication [of child internet porn] by 2008," he told the Guardian."You can certainly go after the individual [paedophiles and websites] but the faster way would be to try to cut off the payment link," Mr DeNoma said. He was speaking just hours before beginning a gruelling 508-mile endurance bike ride today through California's Death Valley to raise money for the cause. "Imagine the outcry if people were using their credit cards to buy heroin or cocaine." he said. "Yet people are using internet payment methods, including credit cards, to buy pornographic images of children. The internet has provided the pornographers with accessibility while the international cards payment system has helped enable the exponential growth of the business."Among the ideas being promoted by Mr DeNoma - an American living in Singapore - is the creation of a clearing house to hold all information about child pornography, such as the websites offering graphic images for sale. This would be one way to help banks share information about possible criminal activity, something it is difficult for them to do because of the Data Protection Act which prevents banks disclosing information about customers.For banks it is a fight on two fronts - ensuring they do not provide start-up capital for illicit websites and stopping customers using debit and credit cards to pay for pornographic images."Nobody comes in and says they are going to sell child pornography. They come in and say they going to sell fishing tackle or something like that," Mr DeNoma said.None of the UK's main domestic players have so far joined the financial coalition, which was launched earlier this year. But Mr DeNoma's intervention comes as Britain's banks are preparing for new domestic laws to stop the credit cards and bank accounts of convicted paedophiles.As a result of changes to data protection laws, convicted paedophiles who have used their debit or credit cards to buy internet child pornography can have their access to finance cut off.Apacs, the body which controls the payment system in the UK, is working with the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre which links all the domestic organisations that can help tackle child sex abuse. The first cases are expected shortly.According to one industry source, the data protection changes are a rare example of the financial services industry being able to make a real contribution to crack down on the crime. Some bankers, however, feel they do not go far enough - particularly because they are still unable to swap information about customers whose cards have been halted and accounts frozen because of convictions.One banking executive said this meant offenders could just turn to another institution for new debit and credit cards. "We can't explain why the card has been stopped," the executive said, other than to say the customer had breached the card's terms and conditions. "There are holes in the process. Although it's a step forward, the new [UK] legislation is not a panacea."A bank could close an offender's account only to be approached by another who had been barred by a rival firm. "It seems most likely that they will move to another provider and that we will receive business from customers who have had their cards withdrawn elsewhere," the executive said.A spokeswoman for Apacs pointed out that in practice, purchases of illicit images could be made using someone else's card anyway. "Some people who commit this crime will be using fraudulent cards," she said.In that instance, ensuring that sites are prevented from opening in the first place will be even more crucial.