A judge yesterday ordered a public inquiry into a suicide attempt by a vulnerable remand prisoner which left him with permanent brain damage.In a ruling that paves the way for public inquiries into suicide attempts by other "at risk" prisoners, Mr Justice Munby said the attempted suicide of the inmate raised "real and very worrying doubts" about whether there was sufficient protection for those who posed serious suicide risks while in prison. Prisoner D, who cannot be named, attempted to kill himself at Pentonville prison, north London, in December 2001. He had a history of self-harming and while in Pentonville made three attempts on his life, two on the same day. Mr Justice Munby said it was "profoundly disturbing" that important documents relating to D's case had been lost. This suggested "an alarming level of carelessness and incompetence, not merely in a major prison but also in Prison Service headquarters". Because of the importance of the case, the judge gave the home secretary leave to appeal against his decision. The ruling was welcomed by D's solicitors, who said it carried "serious repercussions" for the investigation of suicide attempts by at-risk prisoners. Saimo Chahal, D's solicitor, added: "This judgment recognises that the state owes the same duty to investigate attempted suicides of known vulnerable inmates as it does where a death actually occurs. This is vital if lessons are to be learned and deaths in custody prevented." D was remanded in custody on charges of attempted armed robbery and taken to Pentonville on November 30 2001. He arrived at the prison from hospital after he harmed himself at the court, with a form stating he was a suicide risk. On three days in early December, D harmed himself and he was put on suicide watch on December 13, after a suicide attempt. On December 27, two days after his 22nd birthday, a broken razor and noose were discovered in his cell. Shortly after the discovery, D received a phone call in which he was told his daughter had been taken into care by social services. He was extremely distressed and prison staff were told to be vigilant. At 3.45 that afternoon he hanged himself using bed linen "which despite everything had been left in his cell", the judge said. "He was discovered, cut down and revived in time to save his life but too late to save him from suffering permanent and irreversible brain damage." In his ruling, Mr Justice Munby found the Prison Service's method of investigating attempted suicides, internal review, failed its legal duty under human rights law to protect life. There was "no logical reason for treating a 'near-miss' suicide attempt differently from that of a death in custody". He was not suggesting every prison suicide attempt should merit a public inquiry, but noted that there were a "potentially large number of other cases". The judgment was welcomed by Inquest, the charity that works with the families of those who have killed themselves while in prison. Deborah Coles, Inquest's co-director, said: "The failure of the Prison Service to properly investigate serious suicide attempts has prevented the opportunity to learn lessons. "Vigorous public scrutiny to identify systemic or individual failings will help to ensure the future protection of the safety and lives of other prisoners."