Police investigating the racist stabbing of Stephen Lawrence are examining whether hearsay evidence could lead to a fresh trial of the five main murder suspects.Changes in legislation since the last time officers prepared a prosecution case against the suspects mean that potentially vital evidence is now admissible in court. Crown prosecutors and Scotland Yard detectives hope new material can now be used against the five men who police believe are responsible for what remains one of Britain's most notorious racist killings.The developments come amid a sweeping 'reassessment' of the evidence collated by past and present police investigations into the murder of the 18-year-old A-level student. Stephen was stabbed to death by white youths in Eltham, south London, in April 1993. Neil Acourt, his brother Jamie, David Norris, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight remain the chief suspects. Neil Acourt, Dobson and Knight were acquitted of murder after a private prosecution brought by Lawrence's family collapsed at the Old Bailey 10 years ago.Detectives are now trawling through every statement collected since the murder alongside several fresh leads arising from calls following July's BBC documentary into allegations that the former drugs baron Clifford Norris, father of David Norris, paid an officer on the initial murder inquiry team to protect his family from arrest.The admissibility of hearsay evidence means statements which previously had to be regarded as 'gossip' from individuals in the community could implicate the suspects.'We are keeping an open mind on this case and will give serious consideration to any new evidence that the police provide to us with a view to pursuing a conviction,' said a Crown Prosecution Service spokesman. However, only evidence considered 'compelling' would be sufficient to force a retrial of the three suspects who previously faced prosecution, under the 'double jeopardy' rules.Michael Mansfield QC, the Lawrence family's barrister, said hearsay held the potential to 'invigorate' evidence collected by police working the case. 'Material has a different perspective than it did in the first place,' he said. 'They [Scotland Yard] would certainly have to look very carefully at any material. [They] had information right at the start from a credible source, but did not act on it.'Mansfield said the next six months would be critical. However, legal sources cautioned that the analysis of hearsay evidence was still in its infancy. Privately, prosecutors believe the most realistic chance of securing a prosecution lies with advances in forensic technology.The news arrives amid an ongoing Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation into allegations that the initial investigation was blighted by corruption. A BBC documentary alleged Detective Sergeant John Davidson was in the pay of Clifford Norris. The claim was made by former policeman Neil Putnam, himself convicted of corruption. However, officers on the original botched investigation into the murder have not yet been interviewed. Neither has Norris.The IPCC investigation has been broadened into investigating a number of officers, not just Davidson. An IPCC source said there had been a positive response to initial inquiries. John Wadham, the IPCC commissioner, said: 'Following our witness appeal, information has been received which is of interest.'