The job has been described as the most difficult in Whitehall. Right now, that is exactly what it is. Look at the three most immediate and perhaps contradictory challenges facing the home secretary: tackling the rise in street robberies; reducing the burgeoning prison population; and dealing with a tabloid press which fans public fears of crime and frequently portrays the most blatant examples of juvenile delinquency as widespread and commonplace. No wonder that yesterday's Guardian-ICM poll suggests Labour is losing its painfully won and mistakenly pursued reputation as a law 'n' order party.The rise in street robberies is serious; the total rose by 40% in the last nine months of 2001. True, a large proportion was fuelled by a phenomenal increase in 11 to 15-year-olds taking mobiles off their peers. But these are not trivial crimes; many incidents turned nasty and young people have as much right to protection as adults. Over and above this, there has been a rise of more straightforward street robberies. Ironically, part of that rise is due to successful crime prevention programmes. These drove a 30% drop in car crime and burglary in the last five years. But, as more cars and more houses have become impregnable, criminals have taken to personal confrontations - taking cars from people as well as their wallets, watches and credit cards. Officials had recognised the street crime problem long before the tabloid press. They have been working on a response for over two years. An early pilot 18 months ago targeting five hotspots was "deeply unimpressive". But lessons were learned and 10 new pilots are due to be launched. Robbery is a far bigger challenge than burglary, but intelligence-driven, properly targeted police operations should begin to reduce it. Better still, each time crime prevention policies force offenders to switch their focus, the offending group gets smaller. Yet there is no contradiction between tackling robbery and reducing the prison population - as even the Conservatives were ready to concede yesterday. All of the system's key players - lord chief justice, chief prison inspector, and prison director - agree too many inappropriate offenders are still being imprisoned. Much more use could be made of challenging community programmes, which are more effective in changing behaviour. David Blunkett is right not to be diverted by the current hue and cry. The recent Halliday report documented the damage which short sentences produce by removing the influences that keep people straight: family, home, work. It is also sensible of Mr Blunkett to make the tagging criteria clearer, to reduce the wide variation in its use by prison governors, and widen the eligibility category. But yesterday's announcement of fixed penalty notices will need close analysis. It follows Tony Blair's ill-fated and imprudent populist plan of two years ago, under which young hooligans were to be frogmarched by the police to cash points. Chief constables rightly rejected that, but they have been working on an alternative. Unlike the Blair plan, this is not an on-the-spot fine. There will be no collection of money by the police. Instead, some offences, particularly public nuisance (false alarms, drunk and disorderly, throwing stones at trains) would be subject to a fixed penalty payable within a set period. There would be two levels: £40 and £80. It would save court time, but it would still give offenders who want to contest the offence a proper hearing. Australia has tried it, but found high rates of non-payment. Even so, it is worth exploring through pilot projects.