A trip to the forest can quickly bring you up against a thicket of legislation, as Brigitte Tee-Hillman, a mushroom expert from Hampshire, has found. The 63-year-old German was arrested - and is now suing the government - over claims that she broke the law by picking chanterelles in the New Forest and selling them to hotels and restaurants. Tee-Hillman, who has been mushrooming (the technical term) for 30 years, says the case is "ridiculous". But the Department for the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra) compares her actions to taking the fruit and vegetables from someone else's allotment.In fact, the legal situation is baffling, and the putative wild plant hunter can expect to receive a variety of subtly differing advice. Generally speaking, you don't need a landowner's permission to pick a wild plant, only to "uproot" it, so picking the "above-ground fruiting body" is generally OK, says Dominic Price, species recovery officer at the charity Plantlife International. The exceptions are bluebells and about 180 other species listed on schedule eight of the Countryside and Wildlife Act 1981 - a document it might be useful to stick in your rucksack next time you go flower-picking.After that, it really starts to get complicated. First, according to Defra, some of the plants on schedule eight are protected only against being picked and sold, not just picked. Second, the case against Tee-Hillman isn't based on the Countryside and Wildlife Act at all, but on the Theft Act of 1968, which clarified the law on stealing other people's property. Only when plants are picked for commercial gain is there the possibility of prosecution. The growing vogue for wild food "is obviously great," says Price, but Plantlife International worries that it has also fuelled an increase in foraging to which the law has not yet fully adapted.In the meantime, the options for the hiker intent on living entirely off the earth are slim. A non-endangered mushroom sandwich, perhaps, with tree bark for bread? Certain insects are reputedly tasty, when prepared correctly, but you will need to consult a whole different set of laws before you go down that route.