Joey Barton's football career has long been punctuated by controversial off-field behaviour.The midfielder, capped once by England, has made regular court appearances and attracted headlines for his disciplinary and anger management issues.Known for his raw ability, the Newcastle United player is equally recognised for his violent temper, which has resulted in a number of assault charges in recent years.Last May, he was suspended and fined £100,000 after an assault on his former team-mate Ousmane Dabo while both were playing for Manchester City. Dabo was taken to hospital with head injuries and a suspected detached retina, and Barton left the club, joining Newcastle in a £5.8m deal, soon afterwards. Barton was charged with assault - a charge he said he "strenuously denied" at the time. However, he yesterday admitted assaulting Dabo, changing his plea shortly before the start of a scheduled hearing at Manchester Minshull crown court.The midfielder, who was born in Huyton, Merseyside, has spoken of seeing football as a way of escaping the problems of the area in which he was raised."Where I'm from, you either work hard at school to get out or you escape through sport," he said. "The other option is loitering, crime, drugs and prison."He threw himself into training and was good enough to join Everton's youth system, but the club let him go when he was 14. Barton was then rejected by Nottingham Forest for being too small, and has since said that steback only added to his determination to make it.He began playing for Manchester City in 2002, going on to become one of the club's leading scorers in the 2006-2007 season. However, his football was not what was attracted the most headlines. He was involved in a 10-man brawl during a match against Doncaster Rovers in 2004 after a bad challenge on an opposition player. That Christmas, he was almost sacked after stubbing a lit cigar into the eye of Jamie Tandy, a youth player, after catching him trying to set fire to his shirt. He apologised and was fined six weeks' wages.The following year, Barton assaulted a 15-year-old Everton supporter at a pre-season tournament in Thailand, later undergoing anger management therapy at the order of the City management. This time, he was fined £120,000 and subsequently underwent a behavioural management programme.Last February, Barton gained his first England cap despite criticising members of the national team for releasing autobiographies on the back of their lacklustre performance in the 2006 World Cup.But off the field, there was more trouble. He broke a pedestrian's leg while driving his car through Liverpool in May 2005. Two years later, he was arrested on suspicion of criminal assault and criminal damage after an argument with a taxi driver, of which he was later cleared. Joshua Wilson, a cousin, admitted damaging the vehicle.In May, Barton was jailed for six months after admitting assault and affray following an attack in Liverpool at Christmas.