Lawyers for the Crown Prosecution Service are no doubt already poring over files of acquitted murder suspects after the government's success in pushing through legislation abolishing the double jeopardy rule which barred defendants from being tried twice for the same crime. But they would do well to take a look at the case of a British businessman serving 12-and-a-half years for murder in the Netherlands, to see what happens when the prosecution is routinely allowed a second bite at the cherry.In the summer of 1995, life seemed to be going well for Kevin Sweeney. Seven months earlier, he had married Suzanne Davies, a sales director with a British publishing company. Sweeney had been living near Brussels but planned to open a factory making CD-roms in Eindhoven in the Netherlands, so the couple bought a house in the village of Steensel near the Dutch-Belgian border. On July 16, they spent the day decorating. In the early hours of the following morning, a fierce fire broke out in the bedroom in which Davies was sleeping and she died from burns and smoke inhalation. At some point before the fire - the exact time was a matter of dispute between prosecution and defence - Sweeney had left the house to drive back to Brussels because his young daughter from a previous marriage was sick. It was not disputed that when Davies's body was found, the house was securely locked from the inside. Sweeney voluntarily returned to the Netherlands for the fire investigation and was subsequently arrested. The police regarded as highly suspicious the fact that bottles of turpentine and other potential accelerants were found in the house, pointing to the fire having been started deliberately and away from the theory that Davies had been smoking in bed and that the fire was an accident. However, he received no financial benefit from her death. Sweeney was charged with murder, but the strength of the case against him can be gauged by the decision to release him from custody shortly before the trial. In October 1996, a three-judge court in Den Bosch - there are no juries in Dutch trials - unanimously acquitted him. Under Dutch law, the prosecution has a right to appeal against acquittal, and in November 1997 Sweeney was summoned to appear before a higher court to answer the same charge of murder. However, once in court, prosecuting lawyers said they were not ready to proceed and he was allowed to return home. "At that point," he says from his prison cell, "I knew that the tests done by a battery of fire experts were inconclusive and I naturally assumed that the prosecution had failed to find enough credible evidence that the fire was arson rather than accident. Suzanne was a smoker and the postmortem exam found alcohol in her blood. The scenario that she had been smoking in bed and could not react quickly enough when the bedclothes caught fire was far more plausible than anything sinister. And the turpentine was there because we were trying to remove paint stains. " But the examining magistrate in charge of the case was not deterred by this initial setback. New fire tests were commissioned and more than three years later, in February 2001, Sweeney was again summonsed to appear before the appellate court for what, effectively, became a retrial. The hearing lasted one day and Sweeney's Dutch lawyer, Nicolas Meijering, describes it as the most bizarre of his 16 years in criminal practice. "I get more and more angry each time I think about it. The presiding judge rang me the day before and suggested I cut down the number of witnesses I planned to call, indicating very strongly that we had an excellent case and were going to win it without a lengthy hearing. In fact, in court, several journalists came up to congratulate me because the prosecution put forward absolutely no evidence that the fire was set deliberately, offered no motive for murder, and gave no explanation of how a man could escape, like Houdini, from a house which was locked and bolted from the inside when the body was discovered. Despite all that, the judges deliberated for five minutes - yes, five minutes - before deciding he was guilty." Two weeks later, his client learned his sentence: 13 years. The last throw of the domestic dice for the defence was to appeal to the Dutch supreme court. In November 2002, that, too, ended in failure, though the sentence was reduced by six months. Now, an application has been lodged with the European court of human rights in Strasbourg claiming that Sweeney's right to a fair trial was breached. The brief has been taken by an English barrister, Henrietta Hill. "There were so many European convention on human rights violations in this case, it's hard to know where to start," she says. "There's the speed with which the acquittal was overturned in 2001. The fact that there was no fresh evidence. The fire tests which were badly flawed according to technical experts for the defence. I was always against the abolition of double jeopardy in the UK because defendants deserve a finality of due process and this case shows the risks involved." Hill believes it also demonstrates the dangers of dispensing with juries. "My experience is that, in murder cases where the evidence is contradictory and the Crown fails to put forward any kind of motive at all, juries are reluctant to convict. In Mr Sweeney's case, the prosecuting lawyer said in his closing speech: 'Only the defendant knows why he did it.' Well, frankly, that may be good enough for judges to convict but I think a jury would have been more sceptical. " The prosecutor's office in Den Bosch admits that there were "little" flaws in some of the technical tests to establish how the fire started. But not sufficient, according to the appeal court, to undermine Sweeney's right to a fair trial. Explaining the delay between the two trials, the prosecutor says this was to allow fresh tests to be done and blames the defence for wanting to call new witnesses. And it seems it is not at all unusual in Dutch murder trials for the prosecution to offer no motive. Meijering's assertion that the presiding judge in the appeal dissuaded him from calling all the witnesses he wished to is denied. A recurring feature of miscarriages of justice is the sheer determination of defendants to clear their names whatever the cost. Sweeney took the prison authorities to court to get access to a computer to marshal his case and went on hunger strike to force the supreme court to supply him with a written judgment. Meijering says he has never represented a client who has shown such tenacity and Hill describes him as "a highly intelligent man who has been through an appalling experience. After all, he lost his wife in this fire. He's a victim, too." From his cell, Kevin Sweeney says he will fight on and on. "If I win at the European court, there will probably be a retrial. So, I'll have to go through it all again. But I'm quite prepared because I know I didn't do it."