Harriet Harman holds that a Swedish-style law against buying sex is necessary to stem demand for sex workers trafficked into Britain (Harman calls for prostitution ban, December 21). She was supported by former Europe minister Denis MacShane, who insisted there are 25,000 sex slaves in the UK. This is a startling assertion - 25,000 is more than the entire workforce of Debenhams. How is it that this vast number of women and girls are so readily available to male clients and yet simultaneously so difficult for the police to detect?When 515 indoor prostitution establishments were raided by police as part of Operation Pentameter last year, only 84 women and girls who conformed to police and immigration officers' understanding of the term "victim of trafficking" were "rescued". At this rate, the police would need to raid some 150,000 indoor prostitution establishments to unearth MacShane's 25,000 sex slaves. The fact that there are estimated to be fewer than 1,000 such establishments in London gives some indication of how preposterous MacShane's claim is.Abuse and exploitation undoubtedly occur in the UK sex sector, but only a minority of cases involve women and girls being imprisoned and physically forced into prostitution by a third party. More usually, those who are vulnerable are working to pay off debts incurred in migration, or to supplement paltry single-parent benefits. Their vulnerability is in large part a consequence of government action and inaction - its failure to regulate the sex sector, its immigration and welfare policies etc. And raids by police and immigration officials normally result in their deportation or prosecution for benefit fraud, not in their assistance or protection.The government's concern about sex trafficking appears to have helped immigration officers meet their targets for deportations without protecting sex workers. Evidence from other countries (including Sweden) suggests that a policy of suppression, whether focused on clients or sex workers, can have very negative consequences for those who trade sex. But in place of serious debate based on independent research evidence, we are offered hyperbole and emotive rhetoric about sex slaves. We need to move beyond this and think not only about how to offer those who currently work in prostitution protection, but also how to ensure them rights.  Professor Julia O'Connell Davidson, University of NottinghamHarriet Harman's proposal is just a lingering example of Blairism: eye-catching, ill-defined and its consequences not thought out. There are many types of sexual relations where money, goods or services pass from one party to another - marriage for a start - not all of which are surely intended to come under a ban. The law might make an exception for married couples, but that would have to extend to unmarried couples who live together, and then those who do not live together, and then those who go out on a date without splitting the costs equally and end up in bed.All these cases might be excluded on the grounds that the payment to the sexual partner was not specifically for sex, so where one party happens to employ the other as a secretary or a gardener, or hires the other as a yoga teacher or a childminder there would be no offence. Yet the law would presumably try to include cases where the sexual partner was hired as a masseur or an escort, regarding these as merely covers for sex, a hard line to draw clearly.Ministers should first decide what the purpose of prohibition is. Sex is not a bad thing, nor is earning one's living, nor is it obvious why the former should not be a means to the latter. The ill effects of prostitution are not intrinsic, but associated with it and include violence, forms of slavery, illegal immigration and exploitation. However, these are against the law already, except for exploitation - when the prostitute is miserably paid for his or her services. Yet the proposed law would provide legal backing to the customer who leaves without paying.  Anthony Matthew, LeicesterAs a Labour member I was appalled at more dangerous moralising from my party. Harriet Harman's proposal will place sex workers at greater risk of violence and cut the chances of bringing successful prosecutions against those who commit violence - a point made by the English Collective of Prostitutes. The way to protect prostitutes is to legalise brothels to provide greater scrutiny of the industry and protection for sex workers. Illegality will make it harder to deal with trafficking. The Labour party would do better focusing on the issues that compel some people to enter prostitution, such as poverty and drug addiction, rather than talking of a ban.  Stuart Colley, LondonSurely the owners of newspapers carrying adverts for "massage parlours", which are by common knowledge acting as a front for brothels (Not in our newspapers, G2, December 21), are living on immoral earnings, an offence under the 1956 Sexual Offences Act.  Richard Towers, Sheffield