It doesn't happen every day. So when Tony Blair and Ken Livingstone join forces to defend Sir Ian Blair's imperilled position as Britain's senior police officer, it's worth asking why. The prime minister has always been pro-police, but in his tearaway youth London's mayor had his issues.The short answer from both politicians' offices is that the Met police commissioner has done a very good job in reforming the force since becoming its no 2 in 2000 and taking over from Sir John (now Lord) Stevens as no 1 last year. In the process he has made enemies, who are using the opportunity provided by two counter-terrorist gaffes - the De Menezes killing in Stockwell and last week's Forest Gate raid - to destabilise him.So the form of words used by the (new) police minister, Tony McNulty, that Sir Ian's job is "entirely safe" for now was unfortunate; an attempt to be positive without prejudging the imminent, much-leaked reports known as Stockwell I and II. As far as Blair I - Tony - is concerned Blair II - Ian - is safe unless the reports prove a lot more damning than weekend leaks suggest. "Complete confidence" was Blair I's unequivocal verdict last night."Most of the issues here are not about terrorism policy, but about other issues," one senior Labour politician explains.Ministers, MPs, and the mayor all agree that Sir Ian is paying the price with some senior police officers for reform. He diverted men and resources into community policing, including community support officers (CSOs, fashionably visible on the beat); and he belatedly recruited ethnic minorities to more accurately reflect the capital's amazing diversity."The Met has been better at the 'capital city' stuff like handling the IRA than it has at basic crime fighting," explains a Home Office veteran. That is right, says No 10, but not universally popular.That is not the whole story, of course. Blair II has always been good at schmoozing top brass, less good than Lord Stevens (now a mischievous columnist on the News of the World, which ran Sunday's damaging leak) at stroking the rank and file. Blair II talks too much, not always wisely.One well-placed Tory described Sir Ian as over-impressed with social policy instead of tackling crime.Little wonder that rightwing newspapers, led as ever by the Daily Mail, want his scalp.Hence the leaks from in or around the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) and weekend claims that M15's Forest Gate tip-off was referred to Whitehall because the Met's special branch (SO12) was sceptical while counter-terrorism (SO13) was "gung ho".Like much else, that version is disputed. But well-informed MPs accept that the threat is real."Even if the intelligence is only 50-50, the operation has to be 100%, you can't plan for half a bomb," one MP said of Forest Gate.Fortunately for Sir Ian, fellow police chiefs and Len Duvall, Labour chairman of the Metropolitan Police Authority, the body which would have to sack him - after talking to John Reid - remain on his side, not the Mail's.