The Office of Fair Trading is launching a campaign today to warn against telephone lottery scams. Victims are losing more than £500,000 a month to Canadian confidence tricksters, some backed by groups such as Hell's Angels or the mafia. But that amount could be far higher. Many people are so ashamed of falling for the swindle they never tell the police or even their families. Victims lose because they hand over cash to callers who pretend the money will help "unlock" massive winnings on the Canadian national lottery. But there are no winnings. And Canada does not have a state-backed national lottery. The criminals are targeting the UK after fleecing some $5bn (£3bn) from US victims. One UK victim alone lost £67,000. The scam starts when people receive an unsolicited phone call - usually from Canada. Warwick Pelta, 70, from Southampton, lost £9,300 in 10 days. "I was phoned up by a 'Mr Hawkins'. He said I had won £500,000 on the Canadian lottery although I could not recall buying a ticket. I had to send him £1,600 in cash by Western Union. I could not use credit cards or cheques as the Canadian government could trace these and charge me 40% tax," Mr Pelta said. Then a second caller contacted Mr Pelta to say that Hawkins was a fraud. Mr Pelta sent this second caller cash. Then Hawkins offered to meet him at Heathrow with his "prize" if he paid more but neither Hawkins nor the cash materialised. Mr Pelta, who used money from a Halifax loan, said: "I am not usually gullible. But these people win your confidence. My three grown-up children will be horrified." The OFT is now working with Canadian authorities to shut these operations. But although there have been arrests in Canada, Metropolitan police chief inspector David Thompson said the criminals are hard to track. They use throwaway mobile phones and light sentences make the risk slight. The new campaign to warn consumers of the dangers of the scam will target elderly people - more than 80% of victims are aged 65 or older.