Victims of the 7 July London bombings, which killed 52 victims and four terrorists in 2005, have been told no inquests will be held into the tragedy until next year at the earliest.More than two years after the suicide attacks, no date has been set for a hearing into any of the victims' deaths. Although the first inquests were provisionally scheduled for this month, coroners have now informed families they have been indefinitely postponed as the police continue investigating the atrocity.Some families now fear that they may be forced to wait as long as those affected by the Marchioness boat disaster. Relatives of the 51 people who drowned when the pleasure cruiser sank in the Thames in 1989 waited almost six years for the first inquest to take place. Families of those killed in the London bombings have expressed dismay at the delays, claiming they cannot find 'closure' until they hear the specific circumstances of the death of their loved ones.David Gould, stepfather of 28-year-old Helen Jones who died in the King's Cross explosion, said: 'It seems to be dragging on forever and ever. Closure might be an awful American word, but you don't get to that point. Some people are finding it more difficult than others to cope with the length of time they are having to wait. Look at the Marchioness and just how long families waited. It's really in the lap of the gods.'One survivor of the suicide attacks, who did not want to be named, added: 'Families I have spoken to are finding it very distressing.'They cannot piece together how their loved ones died until an inquest [is held]. Details such as whether they died in a carriage or as they were dragged along the tunnel, or even if their lives could have been saved, remain unanswered.'The delay into the inquests has been explained by the need not to prejudice forthcoming terrorism trials and ongoing criminal inquiries into the atrocity.Families, though, are growing increasingly anxious that they still have not learnt the true circumstances into the events leading up to and during 7 July.Victims are currently facing a lengthy legal battle after being told that ministers still oppose demands for a public inquiry. Bereaved relatives and survivors want the government to stage a full independent review of the way intelligence agencies, police and others acted in the run-up to the 2005 Underground and bus attacks in London. The group has applied for a judicial review of the government's continued refusal to launch a full review.However, families have applauded coroners for keeping them informed of the delays and for attempting to answer as many concerns as possible.'A lot of people wanted to question the coroner on circumstances such as how the bodies were kept after they were recovered from the scene and they have been very good at responding,' added Gould.The police investigation into 7 July remains a major inquiry as officers try to piece together who else, apart from the four bombers, may have supplied support for the attacks. Three men were arrested last March in connection with the plot as they were about to catch a flight to Pakistan.Suspicion remains among intelligence agencies that the terrorist plotters who inspired and prepared the 7 July bombers are still at large.Intelligence reports have said that it was 'likely' that the ringleader, Mohammed Sidique Khan, and his right-hand man, Shehzad Tanweer, had been in contact with al-Qaeda figures while in Pakistan and received training.Security services have also confirmed that both had come to the attention of the security services before the four bombers blew themselves up and that Khan had crossed the radar on numerous occasions. However, none was classed as key targets and only 'limited' attempts were made to investigate them because of 'other more pressing priorities'.It is precisely this issue which has frustrated victims of the attacks, who believe that they deserve a more thorough explanation of alleged intelligence failings.