The family of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler today launched a campaign to promote text messaging to parents as a way to ease fears over the whereabouts of their teenage children.Sally and Bob Dowler today explained that texting had allowed them to give their eldest daughter, Gemma, some necessary freedom following Milly's disappearance. The campaign, called Teach your Mum to Text, was Gemma's idea, inspired as a more subtle method of keeping in touch with her parents than answering constant phone calls."What happened to us was that after Milly had gone missing we wanted Gemma to be able to go out and about and I felt quite anxious about that," Sally Dowler told GMTV this morning. "I felt that if we could keep in touch by text and she could say 'I am going here or I am going there' or 'I'll be back in half an hour', it was quite a nice way of keeping in touch ... and it was much more unobtrusive." Mr Dowler said: "Of course Gemma needs a degree of freedom, otherwise you would just be caging her and saying you can't do anything, and that is not a very practical way of living for any of us, particularly Gemma." Writing in a booklet to accompany the campaign, Gemma Dowler said: "Having seen how awful it was 4 my parents wen my sister Milly went missing, I now know how important it is 2 let ur parents know where u r @ all times."Milly was 13-years-old when she disappeared in March last year on her way home from school in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey. Her remains were discovered in Yateley Heath Woods in Hampshire six months later. Her killer is still at large. Mrs Dowler urged teenagers to help their parents learn how to send and receive text messages. She also asked them to help set up their parents' phone books with numbers, including those of friends. The text campaign has been designed in conjunction with mobile phone company O2 and personal safety charity the Suzy Lamplugh Trust, set up in the memory of the estate agent who disappeared in London in 1986. Booklets teaching parents how to text will be available from O2 stores nationwide from tomorrow, while a safety video and "Milly magazines" are being distributed to schools. The safety tips include texting the registration of any car you accept a lift from - whether a taxi or friend - to your family.