After dozens of unsuccessful attempts, Mohammed Patel might have been reasonably expected to navigate his car safely around the Eden Point roundabout on the A34 in Stockport.Yet, to the growing incredulity of staff across the road at the offices of Bovis Homes, the same driver managed to get involved in low-speed crashes again and again at the same spot as he inexplicably slammed his brakes on, leaving the helpless driver behind to hit his car.Today, a court heard the real explanation for the 24-year-old's 93 separate smashes – a fraud that cost the insurance industry £1.6m.Patel charged people £500 a time so he could cause an accident, pretend they were in the vehicle, and allow them to benefit by claiming compensation for injuries, such as whiplash, damage to the vehicle, a hire car, and storage of the damaged vehicle. The court heard that insurance claims cost an average £17,000 per incident.Greater Manchester police said Patel targeted the area as it was wealthy and vehicles were likely to be expensive and insured. Unfortunately for him, office workers at Bovis became suspicious.When he caused two crashes on the roundabout within an hour staff secretly photographed the aftermath. Insurance companies carried out inquiries and passed on their findings to the police.Today in Manchester Patel was jailed for four and a half years and banned from driving for three and a half years. The court was told he spent the money on expensive holidays and cars for himself and his unemployed girlfriend.Judge Bernard Lever told Patel it was not a victimless crime. "The victim may have been an elderly person, a person with a heart condition, a person of a nervous disposition."Van driver Kevin Mair, 30, of Audley, Staffordshire, hit a Toyota Yaris driven by Patel on the roundabout. "I pulled over and got out and said: 'Why did you stop?' and the driver said: 'Didn't you see the motorbike?' It was a bit comical because the passenger and driver got out of the car holding their necks and saying they were in pain. Most people know whiplash is not instantaneous."He said the driver's details were neatly written out and "it was as if it was all scripted".Patel, from Bolton, admitted conspiracy to defraud, six dangerous driving charges and four of driving while disqualified.A number of other defendants, who have been convicted of conspiracy to commit fraud, are awaiting sentence.