Manchester police are holding four people in custody in connection with the murder in Salford of an Indian university student who was shot in the head at point blank range in the early hours of Boxing Day.Anuj Bidve was shot as he walked with nine friends and fellow students from a budget Salford hotel towards central Manchester to queue for the Boxing Day sales.Bidve, who was studying for a postgraduate degree in microelectronics at Lancaster University, died after being approached by two males in the street at around 1.35am in what police have described as a killing without an obvious motive.Officers said it appeared to be a random attack. Bidve is not thought to have known his killers, nor is the shooting thought to be gang related.After pulling the trigger, the gunman fled towards the Ordsall estate, a few hundred yards from the scene of a shooting in September.Police have said they are keeping open the possibility the attack was racially motivated, and added that the investigation was moving very quickly.Those arrested include two teenagers aged 16 and 17, and two adult males. The murder weapon has not yet been recovered. Police said the 17-year-old was being held on suspicion of murder following the execution of an arrest warrant in the Salford area. The 16-year-old was arrested later and held in custody on the same charge. On Tuesday night, the adult males were arrested.Sheetal Patel, 25, told the Guardian she had held Bidve's hand as he lay dying in the street. Patel, a cake maker, said she had been driving past the scene when the student's friends waved her car down."When we arrived at the scene, the guy was lying on the floor," she said. "I was holding his hand, but he was alive. He was making noises. All I was saying is: 'You're very strong, you're going to be all right.'"We just kept on trying to keep him breathing and to make him know that we were there. There was one guy holding Anuj's head, trying to put pressure on the wound. And there was another guy who was on the phone to the police."Patel said Bidve "was shot in the head, but the bullet didn't go through his head" and that there did not appear to be an exit wound. "We all thought he was going to live," she added.Patel said it had seemed to take more than 25 minutes for the emergency services to respond. "The response time took too long … we were thinking should we put him in a car and take him to hospital ourselves."We didn't know what we were doing. I make cakes – I don't have a clue about first aid or anything."Patel said Bidve's friends had reported that, before firing the gun, the two males asked what time it was in a conversation described by police as "very short"."I don't know who told them [Bidve and his friends] to walk to Manchester at that time of the morning through that estate. Everyone knows not to walk through that estate. It's rough," she added.Bidve's family paid tribute to him in a statement, saying: "Anuj was a loving son, a super caring brother and, first and forever, a friend for many. He valued his relationships and put them over anything else. He was the first person you could call when in trouble."Anuj loved to travel and loved his food. He loved to cook. He could easily bring a smile on anyone's face with his innocent jokes. His passing will not only leave a void in our lives, but in the hearts of all those who knew him."Speaking from the family's home city of Pune, 100 miles south-east of Mumbai, Bidve's cousin Suruchi Wagh said: "We pray to God that no one is ever put in this situation. The whole family is upset, and we want to see him one last time."Wagh said her cousin, a keen Manchester United supporter, had been very excited about his postgraduate project at Lancaster and had attained all A grades in his first semester.Bidve's brother-in-law, Rakesh Sonawane, 30, said: "Anuj had been very happy. It was his dream to go to the UK but unfortunately his dream could not last longer than three months."He loved to travel and make friends. He had lots of friends. You only have to look at his Facebook page to see how many friends and followers he had. We have completely lost faith in everything."The student's father, Subhash, a branch manager with an energy company, left a message on his son's Facebook page calling on the UK government and the Indian high commission to speed up the process of returning his son's body to India.Two other Facebook pages have been set up to organise peace marches in Bidve's memory on 2 January. One, in Mumbai, will set off from the city's historic India Gate and end at the British consulate. A second, in Salford, is set to be attended by over 200 people.