It is often said that we have the best criminal justice system in the world – and there is clearly much that we can be proud of – investigators, prosecutors and judges are clearly and demonstrably independent of government, ordinary citizens are involved as members of the jury in trials in the crown court, we have robust rules about disclosure, and there is a very strong presumption that proceedings must be public.However, public expectations in the 21st century are high. And rightly so. When it comes to criminal justice, the public is no longer satisfied with a criminal justice system that is process driven, they want a criminal justice service that is not only capable of delivering justice in every case as effectively and efficiently as possible but which is also underpinned by core quality. That is quite a challenge. But it is a challenge we must meet.The vast majority of cases prosecuted by the Crown Prosecution Service are investigated by the police. But the CPS is now merging with the Revenue and Customs Prosecution Office and henceforth there will be one prosecution service for a much wider range of investigating bodies, including not only the police but also the Serious and Organised Crime Agency, Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs and the newly formed UK Border Agency.The merged organisation will prosecute over 1.1 million cases a year. And its cases will range from extremely serious terrorist ones and international organised crime at one end to antisocial conduct and disorder at the other, not to mention the challenge of prosecuting fraud and financial crime and tackling violence against women.If, as prosecutors, we are to deliver criminal justice in the way that the public now expects, the first challenge is to be clear about our role and purpose. We exercise powers on behalf of the public and the public is entitled to know what service it can expect from its prosecutors.What is needed is not quite a contract with the public, but certainly a clear understanding or agreement. And although targets have their place in criminal justice, I believe that the emphasis should be on core quality. This is why we are publishing a set of core quality standards for prosecutors today. These standards define a new relationship between the prosecution service and the public by setting out in plain language what we will deliver and the standard to which we will deliver it.For example, a clear commitment is made to victims and witnesses in the following terms: "We will assess the needs of victims and witnesses, keep them informed about the progress of their case, and help them to give their best evidence."That commitment is then underpinned by a requirement that witness care staff will be assigned to every case to provide support to victims and witnesses, including, among other things, arranging a visit to court before trial, helping with potential childcare or transport problems, and communicating the outcome of a case within one day of the result. At the moment, although we rightly recognise that victims and witnesses have a legitimate stake in criminal proceedings, many experience frustration and disappointment in the process. Core quality standards signal a new approach intended to ensure excellence and consistency in the service that we provide.Core quality standards will also provide greater public scrutiny of the work we do. A modern prosecution service needs to be accountable, visible and transparent. The days of decisions being made by desk-bound prosecutors behind closed doors are long gone. Now we explain our charging decisions and give detailed reasons when we decide not to prosecute. I recognise that not everyone will agree with all our decisions, but at least they can now understand how they have been reached. We have also taken the decision to release material used in court to the media so that the public can follow and understand what has happened in court in a much more obvious way – attending court should not be the only way of delivering open justice, the public should be entitled to access criminal justice through their newspapers and on their screens.Greater public scrutiny will also shine a powerful torch on some criminal justice issues ripe for reform. We are still far too reliant on paper files, which – all over England and Wales – are shuttled daily between the police, prosecutors and courts in the back of vans. If a 21st-century prosecution service is to be delivered, the electronic file needs to be its main currency. Equally, we need to recognise that the vast majority of defendants now plead guilty (over four in five cases in the crown court). That requires a reorientation of our approach so that guilty plea cases can be dealt with as swiftly as possible, leaving us to devote our valuable time and resources to cases that really require them. That way we may just begin to tackle the delays that still bedevil criminal justice.Core quality standards for prosecutors will allow us to proceed with confidence. They will also allow the public to judge us by results.