Two Scotland Yard officers involved in shooting a man dead six years ago, claiming they mistook a table leg he was carrying for a gun, were arrested yesterday on suspicion of his murder.Harry Stanley, 46, a painter and decorator, died after being shot in the head and hand outside an east London pub on September 22 1999. Only last month, Chief Inspector Neil Sharman, 42, and Constable Kevin Fagan, 38, the two Metropolitan police marksmen concerned, succeeded in overturning an inquest verdict of unlawful killing. But yesterday they were arrested after new forensic evidence came to light following a re-examination of existing material. Surrey detectives, who are carrying out a review of the Stanley case, arrested them on suspicion of murder, manslaughter and conspiracy to pervert the course of justice. The two officers, who are on "non-operational duties" after a short suspension last year, voluntarily attended a Surrey police station and were released on bail to return on June 16, pending further inquiries. A Surrey police source said the two men were at the police station for about three hours, during which time they were questioned. He said detectives were working very closely with the Crown Prosecution Service and would file a report. It would then be up to the CPS to decide if they would be charged with any offences. The arrests are the latest twist in the long-running legal battle over the shooting outside the Alexandra pub in Hackney, east London. An anonymous 999 caller claimed to have spotted an Irishman wielding a gun wrapped in a plastic bag. As Mr Stanley, a Scotsman, left the pub, carrying a bag containing a wooden coffee table leg his brother had repaired, he was challenged and shot dead by the two police marksmen, who said they thought he was pointing a sawn-off shotgun at them. In June 2002, the first inquest jury, forbidden from considering findings of unlawful killing or gross negligence manslaughter, returned an open verdict. Last October, a second inquest returned an unlawful killing verdict, and the two officers were suspended from duty. But they were allowed back to work after colleagues in Scotland Yard's elite S019 firearms unit staged an unofficial strike. Last month, the high court quashed the unlawful killing verdict. Irene Stanley, the dead man's widow, vowed to fight the high court ruling. Yesterday, the family's solicitor, Daniel Machover, said: "The family are awaiting a decision on charges from the Crown Prosecution Service and are looking forward to an early decision." Scotland Yard, however, is standing by the two policemen. A senior officer insisted last night that they would not be suspended or face disciplinary action, but that the Met would await the outcome of the Surrey police inquiry. Assistant Commissioner Steve House, head of the Met's central operations, said: "These officers were asked to make a split-second life and death decision ... six years later their decision is still being examined by the legal system. How many of us would want to be in that position?" Last night Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, called Surrey police's handling of the case a "complete disgrace". 