It started the same as any other Wednesday. I dropped my daughter off at school and drove to the small Horwich branch of Barclays Bank, where I had worked as a clerk for two years. I was working with only two other women that day, Lynn and Jane, who were waiting at the glass doors.I'd been caught in traffic and was five minutes late; all staff had to be there before the bank could open – just one of the many security procedures we followed. There were double airlocked doors that led to the tills, which were behind a glass partition. You had to enter a code on the first door and this had to close before the second door could open.I got to my till as Lynn, a clerk like me, pulled open the shutters on the window. Jane was a personal banker, so she sat on a chair to wait for her first client. Lynn pulled open the front door. We were unprepared for what happened next.Two men, wielding a gun and a machete, ran into the bank. Dressed in sportswear, their faces covered by balaclavas, they screamed, "Give us the fucking money!" The man with the machete grabbed Lynn by the hair and pushed her to the ground, before dragging her to the airlocked doors to enter her code. Jane crouched unnoticed behind her chair. Watching from behind the glass, I felt as if I was in a film. Surely this wasn't happening? I don't know why, but I didn't press the panic button.As they entered the narrow space behind the tills, I kept my eyes on the floor rather than risk making eye contact. "Open the fucking ATM," the men were screaming at Lynn. But she told them the money wasn't kept there – it was in the safe, directly behind where I was standing.Turning his attention to me, the man with the machete let go of Lynn and grabbed my left shoulder, ripping my shirt open across my chest. I felt the barrel of the gun against my lower back as the men pushed me towards the safe. My palms were clammy; I hadn't been in the bank for two weeks, so had no idea how much money would be there. As I fumbled my key into the lock, I tried to chat to the men, thinking they might take pity on me. I was met with silence.The bank kept money bundled in colour-coded plastic bags. I opened one compartment to see a single blue bag – just £500. I could hear my heart drumming against my chest. I opened the other side and was relieved to see it was full of orange and purple bundles, each containing £10,000 and £20,000. "Fill up the bag," came a voice from behind me. The man shoved a black holdall with a red trim in front of me. I crouched at the safe, feeling the gun against my back. I sensed the other man leave, probably to guard the entrance.It seemed to take for ever to get all the money into the holdall, though in reality it was less than a minute. The plastic bags slipped against the sweat on my hands. When I'd finished, I was shaking so much that I could barely grip the zip. Once I'd finally closed the bag, the man grabbed it and tore out of the bank. I got up and ran to my till. Lynn and Jane hadn't moved from their positions on the floor.I picked up the phone. It sounds strange, but I rang my nan, the first person who popped into my head. I wanted to tell someone what had happened. Only when I'd hung up did I press the alarm button.Within 20 minutes the bank had filled with policemen and cameras. Lynn's husband arrived with a change of clothes, because the police needed ours for evidence; he had brought her a spare uniform, as if she was going back to work that afternoon. In fact, none of us returned to work at the bank. I'm now a residential childcare worker.The raiders had left with almost £200,000, driving off in a getaway van and shooting at a police car that followed them. The police have since lost trace of them; they are still at large and have raided numerous other banks.The police told me the raiders were probably so aggressive towards us because the bank had opened eight minutes late, disrupting their plan. I got £1,000 in compensation – the hardest money I've ever earned.I had nightmares every night for 12 months and felt permanently on edge. I have finally started to come to terms with it, but the raid was almost seven and a half years ago and I haven't set foot in a bank since.Some names have been changed.• As told to Sarah BiddlecombeDo you have an experience to share? Email experience@theguardian.com