The stepfather of Baby P was found guilty today of abuse charges against a ­second child after the girl became the youngest person to give evidence at an Old Bailey trial.The four-year-old spoke via video link to tell the jury how she was raped by the man when she was two. A news blackout on the two-week case was lifted yesterday after the man, 32, who cannot be named, was found guilty of rape.Baby P's 28-year-old mother was found not guilty of cruelty to the same child. The man was one of two people convicted of causing or allowing the death of Baby P, who can now be named as Peter.Baby P's mother, who pleaded guilty last year to causing or allowing her son's death, broke down and wept as she was found not guilty in the latest case. She will be sentenced in connection with the death of her son later this month, but still cannot be named for legal reasons. Her live-in boyfriend was remanded in custody and will be sentenced on both matters on 21 and 22 May.Judge Stephen Kramer said both should expect "substantial" prison sentences.The girl – who was on Haringey council's at-risk register – was initially considered too young to interview after concerns that she might have been abused were raised by a foster carer. The prosecutor, Sally O'Neill, told the jury: "Young she may be, indistinct at times certainly, but she was quite clear in what she was saying to the police."Her main evidence was a 27-minute video of her police interview, given when she was three. She also appeared on a video link from another room in the Old Bailey to be cross-examined by lawyers for the couple. As she spoke, she sat at a desk and held a soft toy.The jury was never told that the couple in the dock were Baby P's mother and her boyfriend. In another legal first, the court gave the defendants false names so the jury did not connect them with the Baby P case.Lawyers for the couple made several attempts to have the case thrown out, arguing that they would not get a fair trial. But the judge insisted the trial should go ahead.The couple were convicted last November of causing the death of Baby P in an abuse case that resonated around the world because of the level of cruelty and suffering inflicted on the toddler. Peter had more than 50 injuries, despite being seen by the authorities 78 times. The 17-month-old boy was on the child protection register of Haringey council in north London when he died in August 2007.The pathologist who examined his bruised body found eight fractured ribs, a spine broken with such force that it looked like a car crash injury, and a tooth that must have been swallowed after a violent blow to the face. He also noted two missing fingernails, a missing toenail, a tear to the child's ear, as well as marks in his scalp, possibly from a dog's teeth.It was revealed this week that four more staff at Haringey council had been sacked over Baby P's death. Sharon Shoesmith, Haringey's former head of children's services, was sacked without compensation last December and is taking legal action against the council, the children's secretary Ed Balls and Ofsted.The verdict clears the way for publication of several inquiries into the failings by the authorities in the case of Baby P. Serious criticisms of both the police and Haringey social services are expected in a revised serious case review, which has been headed by Graham Badman, former social services director at Kent county council.In a statement, Badman said he would publish as soon as legally allowed, and made clear: "The serious case review reached a number of important conclusions. It said the actions of the protecting professions involved with Baby P were lacking in urgency, lacking in thoroughness and insufficiently challenging to the child's mother."It also said staff adopted a threshold of concern for taking children into care that was too high and had expectations of what could be achieved that were too low."The review panel is also clear that every member of staff in every agency involved with Baby P was appropriately qualified, well-motivated and wanted to do their best to safeguard Baby P. However, the review concludes that Baby P's horrifying death could and should have been prevented."It says if doctors, lawyers, police and social workers had adopted a more urgent, thorough and challenging approach the case would have been stopped in its tracks at the first serious incident."The second review is likely to further criticise the agencies for failing to investigate Baby P's mother fully. Neither the police nor social workers realised she had a live-in partner; instead they believed her claims that she was single and lived alone. Police did not visit the flat and investigate further, and social workers never spotted signs of a man living with the mother.When police went to the couple's home after Baby P's death they found evidence of the man living there. He kept a collection of knives, martial arts weapons and Nazi memorabilia in the house. Police found he had moved in during late 2006 when the abuse against Baby P first began.The end of the case prompted a wave of revulsion and demands for severe sentences. Speaking outside the court, Detective Chief Inspector Graham Grant said: "It is telling that this man denied rape and in doing so forced a very young and vulnerable child to endure a daunting criminal trial at the Old Bailey."It is also humbling to be involved in a case which relied on the testimony of such a young and violated child."Her resilience is extraordinary and I sincerely hope that … she will be able to lead a happy and fulfilled life. This case has shocked everyone to the core."Andrew Flanagan, chief executive of the children's charity NSPCC, said: "The brutal death of Baby Peter and the rape of a two-year-old girl are among the most heinous crimes against small children we have ever seen. They leave all decent ­people bewildered and revolted."Balls called the crime "vile and disgusting", but said he had confidence in the new leadership at Haringey. Council leader Claire Kober said: "We have accepted that things went badly wrong with our child protection in 2007."We live every day with the knowledge that more could have been done and ­apologise again to everyone affected. We are committed to putting things right."