A man who is mentally ill has been sentenced to life with a minimum term of 10 years for killing a retired solicitor after their cars were involved in a minor collision.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Donald Lock. Photograph: Sussex police/PAMatthew Daley, 35, stabbed 79-year-old Donald Lock 39 times on the A24 at Findon, near Worthing in West Sussex, on 16 July last year. The stabbing occurred after Lock’s Toyota crashed into the back of Daley’s Ford Fusion at about 16mph, causing minor damage to both cars.Before the killing, Daley’s family had “pleaded” with clinicians to section him as his mental health was declining, a trial heard.Daley was sentenced by Mr Justice Singh at Lewes crown court on Friday, having been convicted in May of manslaughter but cleared of murder.The judge ruled that Daley would be held in Hellingly medium-secure psychiatric hospital in East Sussex under the Mental Health Act. If and when it became no longer necessary, Daley would be transferred to prison to serve the remainder of the minimum term. When the minimum term had expired, Daley would be eligible for release on licence by the Parole Board.Singh said it was a “violent, unprovoked attack” in front of members of the public, aggravated partly by Lock’s age and the use of a weapon. “It’s clear from the verdict that the defendant’s responsibility for the homicide was substantially impaired. It does not follow that it was completely extinguished.”Days before the trial started, bosses at Sussex Partnership NHS foundation trust apologised to Daley’s relatives for not doing more. Lock’s son Andrew criticised the trust after the trial, saying his father would still be alive if mental health teams had done their jobs properly.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Andrew Lock (right) speaks outside court with his mother, Maureen. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PAThe trust chief executive, Colm Donaghy, said “we got things wrong”, but that he believed staff were not deliberately negligent. He indicated that changes would follow. The judge said: “It would be inappropriate for me to comment further because this has been a criminal trial and not, for example, a public inquiry. However, I hope that the appropriate authorities will do everything possible to investigate what happened and to learn appropriate lessons for the future. The public is entitled to no less.”At the sentencing hearing, Andrew Lock read a family victim impact statement written by his sister Sandra Goodlad. “It’s the most overwhelming pain that you can ever imagine and it catches you by surprise continuously,” he said. “You can be talking and laughing one minute, and then break down in tears the next. We would not wish what we have been through on our worst enemy.” Their father would have turned 80 last week and a big party had been planned by his widow before he was killed, his son added. After the verdict, an independent review of 10 killings involving patients known to the trust, including Daley, was announced. After the sentencing, Marjorie Wallace, the chief executive of the mental health charity Sane, said: “This tragedy could have been prevented and two families saved from grief and heartbreak. “It is extraordinary that the psychiatric services refused to take notice of repeated ‘red alert’ warnings from the parents of Matthew Daley and that he was denied the care and treatment he needed over 10 years.” 