If politics is a contest of ideas, then today's announcement by Tony Blair of a new approach to the criminal justice system may just turn out to be a significant victory for liberalism.It amounts to a recognition that Blair's tough talking decade-long experiment in populism has failed. It's just a shame it has taken so long.After 3,000 new criminal offences, over 60 Home Office bills, and countless reviews, white papers and headline-grabbing gimmicks, the government may finally have come up with some ideas that could actually work.By denouncing any liberal ideas on crime with the infantile allegation that "we're tough, you're soft" Blair had succeeded in closing down the debate on law and order. As a result, liberals have struggled to articulate an alternate message based on what works rather than what sounds good.Today's announcements seem to bring an end to that tough-soft game, and accept our liberal alternative.I welcome in particular the emphasis on mental health; the concept of hybrid prisons where intensive treatment can be offered is a very important departure. Liberal Democrats have been calling for such an expansion of secure mental health treatment for some time, instead of the endless expansion of prison places. Blair should have recognised long ago that we cannot build ourselves out of the prison overcrowding crisis.The government is also mirroring our emphasis on cutting re offending, crucial given that Britain now has the highest levels of repeat crime in western Europe. Tackling the problems faced by prolific offenders - be they mental health problems, drug addiction, learning difficulties or otherwise - is the only way to actually cut their reoffending, and so cut crime rates.This is no "soft" option - it's the smart option, because it works.There remain, unfortunately, vestiges of the old Blairite reflexes in today's announcement. The notion you can achieve justice by bypassing, rather than strengthening, the courts is an old Blair favourite, which rears its head once more today in the expansion of "summary justice".The government also makes reference to the expanded use of databases with no more than a rhetorical sop to concerns about privacy.To secure the long-term legacy of this package, Prime Minister Brown would be well advised to jettison the remaining Blairite flourishes and concentrate instead on implementing the workable policies.Our biggest concern, however, is that the government will not be able to deliver on the promises they put forward today. Good ideas have surfaced before, but when the tabloids said they were soft, or the money was needed for a new "tough" gimmick, the good ideas have been quietly shelved.Now, with the financial squeeze on the Home Office, thanks to a budget freeze from Gordon Brown, it will require real force of will to reprioritise spending in the way outlined today. Where is the money for hybrid prisons when John Reid can barely scrape together the money for his promised 10,000 new prison places?How will the government achieve such dramatic cuts in police paperwork? Our view has always been that technology like voice recognition software could make a real difference, and we hope they will follow our lead in recommending it.As for non-custodial sentences, if the public is to trust these community punishments, they need to be visible and rigorous. We have proposed a new Community Sentence Enforcement Service, to supervise unpaid work in our communities.There are practical problems to overcome in almost every part of the paper published today. But if the political will is there, they can be overcome.All of us who want to cut crime must now hope that the commitment to the post-Blair agenda on crime - the liberal agenda on crime - is here to stay. British voters, fed on a diet of breathless Blairite rhetoric finally deserve an approach to crime which will work.