The trialThe trial lasted seven months and was beset with problems.Two jurors dropped out on grounds of illness before the prosecution case had even finished while defendant Stuart Royle dismissed his counsel to defend himself; his counsel allowed to sit with him in the dock.Royle started badly, asking what role the crown counsel, Sir John Nutting, was fulfilling, despite the trial having been underway for weeks. The judge wearily explained and Royle eventually realised he was out of his depth and asked for another barrister. When told he was not entitled to one, he ceased attending court, preferring to stay in his Belmarsh prison cell.The trial's most dramatic moment came when Michelle Hogg's defence offered a deal for her to give evidence in exchange for dropping charges against her, known as "talk and walk".Roger Coe-Salazar, part of the CPS team, said: "It was my decision and I take responsibility for it. We did not accept that she had no knowledge [of the plot]. It was a public interest decision, not based on the evidence."The case was strengthened once Hogg gave evidence, pointing out the men in the dock. Hogg is now part of a witness protection programme and will spend the rest of her life with a new identity."She actually put names to individuals," Coe-Salazar said. "That piece of the jigsaw was absolutely crucial."The moneyMore than £21m has been recovered from the raid. A large chunk of the remainder is thought to be in Northern Cyprus, which has no extradition treaty with the UK, fact not lost on some British criminals who use it as a boltholeSome of the money is believed to be in Morocco, where it has been converted into property - namely two villas and office premises in Rabat - and cars, some of which have been seized.Bank accounts in Morocco have also been frozen. Other money may have been laundered successfully in the UK.The futureAt least two further trials connected with the case are expected to follow this year, although one of the accused is resisting extradition attempts. One key figure remains at large.Security at Securitas and elsewhere has changed following the raid. Banks and security firms have been reviewing their procedures with the Serious and Organised Crime Agency.Author Howard Sounes, who wrote the book Fred & Rose, the story of the West case, and one of the most widely read true crime books in recent history, has written a book on the robbery, called Heist. A film based on Heist is also underway.Sounes has been attending the trial, which has taken so long that he has apparently been able to read the entire works of Proust plus a biography of the writer during the adjournments.