A man shot dead in a Liverpool street early this morning may have been the victim of a gangland killing, weeks after he was involved in a shooting incident at an under-12s football match.Nicky Ayers, who was in his mid-40s, had a reputation as a hard man in north Liverpool, according to police. In recent months he is understood to have been caught up in a feud about drugs territory which led to shots being fired near the Sunday league football game.The children's match, which Ayers was watching in the Vauxhall area of Liverpool, was abandoned when shots were heard coming from the car park.A gangland rival is understood to have gone looking for Ayers with a samurai sword as players from the Western Approaches, the team Ayers managed, were getting changed before their match. Shots were then fired from a Transit van in the car park.The referee halted the match and took the youngsters away.Ayers was recently involved in another incident when Western Approaches played their Croxteth rivals, the Lobster, in Norris Green. Ayers and a rival gangster are believed to have produced guns and pointed them at each other before onlookers calmed the situation.Police had guarded matches involving Ayers's team in the Sunday league as far back as October 2007, after a man was knifed at a match against the Oyster Martyrs. The game was abandoned after a fight broke out between two men and one was stabbed in the hand.At the time, Liverpool and District Sunday League officials said only a visible police presence at the games would deter "the idiots determined to cause mischief".Merseyside police said today that they were called to a house in West Derby, Liverpool, just after midnight when a man was found outside with gunshot wounds.It is understood Ayers was shot dead on his way home after visiting one of his daughters and his grandson.One witness said three shots were heard in quick succession, followed by a fourth after a pause of a couple of seconds.Terri Patterson, 30, said: "It's normally a very quiet area. I am really shocked by what's happened. I usually let the kids play out in the street and we don't tend to get much trouble around here. It's certainly made me more fearful."The road remained partly sealed off as police carried out house-to-house inquiries.A spokeswoman for Merseyside police said: "Emergency services were called at around 12.10am after a man in his 40s was found outside of a property on South Cantril Avenue, suffering from gunshot wounds. He was declared dead at the scene by ambulance staff."High-visibility patrols have been stepped up in the area and the scene has been cordoned off for forensic examinations. House-to-house inquiries are under way. At this time the motive for the incident is unclear."Police say they are waiting for the results of a postmortem.A neighbour, who did not want to be named, said: "I heard four bangs, one after the other."Me and the missus were in bed when we heard police cars screeching round the corner."