The new licensing hours seem to be having an effect. It's late on a Friday night and Leeds city centre is quiet. Lower Briggate, normally overflowing with boisterous drinkers and revellers falling out of the pubs and fighting for taxis, is almost deserted. Two couples are chatting outside the kebab shop. Another small crowd is remonstrating with the bouncer outside Tappa's nightclub. Other than that, it's a ghost town.Louise, 23, and Claire, 20, my guides for the evening, shiver under the streetlight at the corner of Briggate and Sovereign Street. Louise wears jeans, bomber jacket, gloves and a baseball cap to keep out the cold. Claire wears leggings, a short skirt and has her hair tied up in a pony tail. With her slight build, she could easily be mistaken for a 15-year-old ... a deliberate policy because "it pulls the punters".A man heading towards the taxi rank is assailed by the girls: "Business, love? Come on, we'll both do you. Special offer. Two for the price of one." He shakes his head and hurries past, not realising he's been offered the bargain of the year. The girls are "rattling" - suffering from heroin withdrawal symptoms - and business is slow.The two of them are "sparred up", which means they live together, work together, share their drugs and watch each other's backs. It's dangerous on the streets and it's wise to have a partner. Both have been raped and beaten by punters on numerous occasions. Both are addicted to heroin and crack cocaine. When they are rattling, they will do anything for money.Another working girl stops to chat. Louise, who knows I'm keen to talk, introduces me. "Sophie, this is my dad. He's writing something for the papers about working girls, but he's going to tell it from our point of view so you can be straight with him. If you rip him off, I'll rag your hair out."Louise is the alpha female on Sovereign Street, and the look on Sophie's face tells me that the quietly spoken threat is to be taken seriously. Sophie and I are left alone, not knowing quite what to say to one another. She's used to dealing with men and breaks the ice. "Have you got a car?" she asks, shivering. "Has it got a good heater? We can talk there."I've known Louise for 10 years, since she was 13. She often introduces me as her dad, which I find excruciatingly embarrassing, but which I seldom deny. For a decade, I've been the nearest approximation she has to such a thing. It's a long story, which I wrote about in my memoir, Urban Grimshaw and the Shed Crew. She was one of the original kids and we've kept in touch.Most of the others from the book are slowly getting their lives in order, but Louise's addictions mean she still struggles. She started using heroin when she was 15, and was into prostitution by 18. I plan to write her biography, so for several months I've been going out with her on the streets to observe her life. Last week's announcement by the Home Office minister, Fiona Mactaggart, of a zero-tolerance approach towards street prostitution has added a certain piquancy and immediacy to my research.Pear-shapedWith the heater going full blast, Sophie and I drive to the all-night garage, and for the price of a coffee I get her life story. Happy as a child, things turned pear-shaped as she entered her teens. There was a divorce, her mum remarried, and a stepdad moved in. He was a brute who sexually abused her from the age of 13 until she left home at 16. She then had an abusive relationship with an older man. "He was the jealous type; if I even looked at another bloke he kicked shit out of me," she says. Eventually, with the help of a women's refuge, she was able to escape. "Now I'm 22, on my own and on the game. The punters are slime, but nothing compared to what I've already been through."She seems typical of many prostitutes: she had her self-respect knocked out of her when young. I drop her back on Sovereign Street feeling that I've taken something from her and given nothing back.Louise and Claire are banging on the car roof within seconds. In the time I've been gone, no more than half-an-hour, they've earned £80. "Chappy," Louise commands. "Quick time." We are going to Chapeltown, a largely African-Caribbean suburb of Leeds, to score their drugs. Heavy drugs are available anywhere in inner-city Leeds, but the very finest are to be found in Chapeltown. The girls are connoisseurs and accept nothing but the best.Louise requisitions my phone on the way and places her order. "I want three brown and two white." We are soon parked on a back-street off Spencer Place. Ten minutes later, a young black kid on a BMX bike pulls up nearby in the darkness. Louise jumps out of the car and gets what she needs. "Brown" is heroin, "white" crack cocaine. She gets back in with five tiny wraps of what looks like greaseproof paper. "Home, James," she orders, "and don't spare the horses."Only a few years ago, Spencer Place, a tree-lined residential avenue, was the main red-light zone in Leeds. The girls liked it because there were dark nooks to take the punters, and any number of drug dealers lived nearby. The residents, however, weren't so keen on the arrangement. In 2003, after complaints from locals, the council and police had a "concerted clampdown" on working girls in the area.Trade moved to the city centre. This time it was businesses that complained, and the girls moved on to Water Lane, a newly-gentrified, semi-industrial area south of the city centre. The loft-living residents, concerned about their house prices, were no keener than those in Chapeltown to host the problem. Another clampdown ensued and, finally, the problem ended up in Holbeck, a poor, white, working-class area south of the river.Councillor Angela Gabriel (Labour, Beeston and Holbeck), who sits on the Holbeck Action Group on Prostitution, sums up the merry-go-round: "There should be a city-wide approach. Everyone is just shoving the problem around the city." The government's new strategy promises a nationwide approach. Prostitution is to be pushed from the streets altogether into a thousand back-street brothels.Back at the flat, Louise's boyfriend is preparing the tinfoil and the crack pipe. I ask the girls what they think about the complaints against them. "Well, they're right, I suppose," says Louise, "but we have to go out. We're always going out, because we need the money. Drugs are expensive, you know."Louise and Claire differ from the east European girls trafficked to Britain by thugs. Neither has a pimp nor has ever been coerced into prostitution. Both ply their trade of their own free choice to pay for their drugs. Many of those east European girls, on the other hand, are little more than slaves. Prostitution isn't really the issue in either case. The first is about addiction; the second is about people smuggling and organised crime. Will the government's proposed drug rehabilitation orders help the girls with their habits? "Not really," answers Louise, "because they keep you waiting weeks for treatment. By then you're back in your old ways. When you decide to stop, you need help there and then."Both girls seem clued up on the issues. Louise feels the government has missed the chance to set up tolerance zones. "Even if it was just one street tucked away in an industrial estate. You wouldn't be bothering anybody and they could have lights and cameras and it'd be safe." Both say they would be happy to register as working girls and submit to regular health checks in return. Claire, though, is happier to work more from home. Certain special clients are already entertained at the flat and she sees this as the way forward. "I prefer bringing the punters here," she says. "It's dangerous out there."Funny, vivacious and freeWhatever the government does, Louise and Claire won't stop working. Prostitution has refused to die away over the millennia. The best we can hope for is to make sure everyone stays healthy and safe.The girls, meanwhile, are getting ready to go out again. Claire has changed into jeans. "Do I look like a slut in these?" she asks Louise. "Yes, but a good one," Louise replies, laughing. They make a good double act. Their life is working, scoring, doing their gear, over and over again, maybe four or five times a day. But they are not entirely victims and not entirely unhappy. I found them funny, vivacious and free. Driving home, I ponder on what they might have achieved had their lives not been blighted by drugs.· All names have been changed. Bernard Hare is the author of Urban Grimshaw and the Shed Crew, published by Sceptre. To order a copy for £13.99 with free UK p&p go to Guardian.co.uk/bookshop or call 0870 836 0875.