The Police Federation is to ask rank and file police officers in England and Wales to work to rule in protest at the government's continued refusal to give officers with a pay deal that they deserve. Once again, pay negotiations with the Home Office have broken down, which will no doubt lead to the police negotiating board (PNB) being unable to come to an agreement over the annual pay rise – and as happened last year, the matter being referred to the independent police arbitration tribunal. Previously the index used by the PNB to calculate our annual pay rise was the median of private sector pay, but at a time when public sector increases are going down and private sector increases continue to rise, they moved to a public sector index.The findings of the independent tribunal are binding to the PNB, but not to the home secretary, who can decide to ignore the findings and award whatever she pleases. Last year, this led to over 20,000 police officers marching in central London to protest against the below inflation pay rise, in effect a pay cut.Police officers are prevented by law from taking industrial action (quite right, too: can you imagine the carnage on the streets of our major cities if the police went on strike?), which is why Paul McKeever, chairman of the police federation, will not actually call for work to rule as that would be deemed industrial action. Instead, he called for officers to ensure that they secured their full entitlements, hoping to cost the government millions in overtime payments. Often officers who make an arrest towards the end of a shift can often be caught up in red tape and paperwork for hours (typically it takes around four hours to deal with a shoplifter) meaning officers have to leave late, but seeing you are not paid for the first half an hour of overtime, if you're off an hour late, most officers won't bother claiming for half an hour. If McKeever gets his way, they will.Let's face it, public sector pay pales in comparison to the private sector, and so I'm sure I speak for many officers when I say we're not in it for the money. Most police officers I know have a strong social conscience and do the job for the love of it and for the sense of satisfaction in locking up criminals and making the streets safer for the public. However, considering the personal danger we place ourselves in, and the abuse we suffer daily as a matter of course, I personally don't think it's unreasonable to expect a decent level of remuneration. Especially when you consider that as members of a disciplined service we are required to present ourselves for work when ordered to do so, to deal with incidents while off duty, and are accountable for our actions, or inaction, while on or off duty.At the Police Federation's annual conference in May, officers voted for the right to lobby the government for the right to strike, a move I suspect was designed to scare the government into agreeing to their pay demands. I do not know of any officer who would even consider going on strike, as they know full well the consequences. Their moral compass would simply not allow it. The government knows this and so has us over a barrel, and can be as mean as they like when it comes to our pay, knowing full well that we'll still parade for duty, ready and raring to get out on the streets and deal with this country's criminals because we love the job. That makes me feel both pride and compassion for my fellow underpaid coppers everywhere.Dai Davies is a serving police officer and all views and opinions expressed are entirely his own and not those of his employers