A London black cab driver believed by police to be one of Britain's worst sexual predators was today found guilty of drugging a dozen women he picked up in his taxi intending to rape or sexually assault them.John Worboys, a 51-year-old former stripper from Rotherhithe, south-east London, raped at least one of his passengers and sexually assaulted seven others. He cruised central London late at night to pick up women who appeared drunk, before coaxing or bullying them to drink alcohol laced with sedatives.Detectives have appealed for more victims to come forward after being contacted by 85 women who say they were attacked by Worboys. They believe the true number of his victims is in the hundreds.A jury at Croydon crown court found him guilty on 21 charges against 12 women over a period of 18 months, though police believe this may represent only a fraction of the total number of his victims during the 12 years in which he drove a registered taxi. He was found not guilty on two charges of administering a drug with intent.Several women who gave evidence had come forward to report their assaults only after hearing of Worboys's arrest. At least one of them had been unaware that she had been assaulted until police informed her that her DNA had been found on a vibrator belonging to Worboys.It emerged in court that Worboys was arrested and questioned in July 2007 following reports by a number of women, but he was released on police bail without further action. A further seven of the women who gave evidence in court were assaulted after his initial release.Following the verdict, the Independent Police Complaints Commission announced it will review the Metropolitan police's handling of the case and examine how Worboys managed to slip through detectives' fingers after the July 2007 attack. Scotland Yard referred itself to the watchdog and the officers involved could face misconduct charges if found to have acted negligently.Earlier, Worboys wept in the dock as he was convicted of one count of rape.Mr Justice Penry-Davey said he would adjourn sentencing for a psychiatric report on Worboys. "You must be under no illusion that this case requires and will get a very substantial term of imprisonment."You must not understand from my putting the case back that any more lenient course could be taken."It is important I know as much as possible about you before I decide what the appropriate sentence is going to be."Worboys had sought to present himself in court as a "crusader" who patrolled London helping women to get home safely. In reality he was a calculating predator who carried bottles of champagne and vodka, condoms and sedatives in his taxi.He would dissolve the drugs in a drink before intimidating his victims to drink it. They were then abused.He would tell all his victims a similar lie – that he had won a large amount of money in a casino or in the lottery – and ask them to join him in celebrating, which he described to the jury as his "banter".One victim told the court she accepted champagne from Worboys after getting in his taxi a few days before Christmas in 2007. She then passed out, coming round to find he was raping her. Another described becoming aware of Worboys putting a tablet into her mouth, but remembering nothing more until the following day when she awoke in her bed to find her tampon had been removed.A third told the court she had come round from her drugged state to find the taxi driver trying to force his hands inside her knickers. A fourth, a lawyer who was on maternity leave, discovered scratches to her back and thigh and condom lubricant in her underwear a day after the attack on her.The offences took place between October 2006 and February last year.Scotland Yard brought in officers from Dorset and Surrey when it emerged that Worboys had links to the counties.Four women in the Bournemouth area contacted officers with allegations of rape, sexual assault and kerb-crawling that have been linked to Worboys.The wealthy cab driver owned a share in a holiday property in Poole that was used as a studio to record adult films.One woman who managed to escape Worboys's clutches despite taking a drink from him was Carrie Symonds, who was 19 when he lured her into his cab with the offer of a cut-price trip home."He came into the back and he brought the champagne and he also brought this stack of cash that he claimed to have won," she told ITV.Symonds said that after drinking one shot of vodka she was "clinging" to the side of the taxi."I remember feeling very tired and sort of clinging to the side of the cab. I remember thinking, 'I don't want to talk even'."The worst thing is not having peace of mind. I'm 99.9% sure that nothing happened to me but I will never know."After the hearing, Detective Inspector Dave Reid, who led the investigation, said: "I want to praise the courage of every single one of the women who came forward to police during this inquiry. It's been a major inquiry for the Metropolitan police."In particular I want to thank all 14 women who gave evidence in the crown court over the past eight weeks. Their bravery and integrity is beyond any doubt."There may be some women who have had experience of Mr Worboys and who have not yet reported that to the police and I would request they do so."