Detectives were questioning four suspects last night about the biggest robbery in British history as the final haul in the Tonbridge raid was confirmed as £53m.Armed officers seized two men in a pre-planned operation in Greenwich, south-east London, yesterday morning. Two others were arrested on Sunday afternoon when police shot out the tyres of a BMW in the seaside village of Tankerton, near Whitstable, north Kent.A fifth man was also arrested yesterday and later freed on bail but police would give no further details.Assistant Chief Constable Adrian Leppard, of Kent police, said morale was "very high" about what he described as "clearly significant developments" in the fast-moving investigation. Since the robbery at the Securitas depot last Wednesday, officers have recovered seven vehicles and searched 10 locations in Kent and across the south-east of England. Police said armed officers were involved.Neighbours spoke of the "frightening" moment when firearms officers stormed a semi-detached house - said to be the home of a professional kickboxer - in Southborough, near Tunbridge Wells.Detectives are optimistic that the material already recovered will yield a wealth of forensic science opportunities, although they are still eager to find the 7.5-tonne white Renault Midlum lorry they think was used to transport the money during the raid and possibly to dump 14 metal cash cages found in fields in Detling, east of Maidstone.This lorry, with 54 in the numberplate, a plywood floor and a white rail inside the cargo area, is a key piece of evidence. "Is there an unfamiliar vehicle parked or possibly abandoned near you?" said Mr Leppard. "Please keep a lookout for it as we are very keen to find that lorry."Police have received more than 1,300 calls from the public to a special hotline, some of which have offered useful tip-offs, and they hope the unprecedented offer of a £2m reward will also persuade others with intelligence to come forward."We are gathering important evidence and following a number of significant lines of inquiry," said Mr Leppard, speaking outside Kent police headquarters in Maidstone yesterday evening."I am pleased with progress and remain confident we will catch those responsible. I would like to thank the public for their support. We have now received more than 1,300 calls and some of them have produced really important leads for us."Officially police were giving few details away, but privately, the investigation is said to be at a critical stage. Senior detectives believe the net is closing in on the robbers. Mr Leppard said anyone too frightened to ring the hotline should call the anonymous Crimestoppers number - 0800 555111. "My last appeal is to anyone who may know who has committed the crime. You may have better evidence yourself now, knowing what the police are doing," he added. Six other people - two women and four men - have also been arrested but all have been freed on bail.Among the vehicles recovered so far are a white Transit van containing handguns, balaclavas, flak jackets and £1.3m cash, thought to have been abandoned by the raiders outside a hotel in Ashford on Friday afternoon, and a Volvo saloon and Vauxhall Vectra, both of which were burnt out and may have been used to abduct depot manager Colin Dixon, and his wife and son during the raid.