David Cameron, the Conservative leader, and Jack Straw, the justice secretary, unveiled competing proposals to toughen the law on knife crime today. Cameron said that people caught carrying a knife without a reasonable excuse should expect to go to jail.In an interview with the Sun, Cameron said the current policy, which involves an automatic presumption that people carrying knives will be prosecuted, did not go far enough.He also signalled that he wanted politicians to have more control over sentencing in general, calling for the sentencing guidelines council (SGC) to be reformed.Following the publication of the interview, Straw confirmed that the government was calling for a review of knife sentencing guidelines that are due to come into force next month.The announcements from Cameron and Straw coincided with the news that a 14-year-old boy, David Idowu, of Southwark, has died as a result of injuries suffered in a stabbing in central London nearly three weeks ago.Last month, following a Downing Street summit called to discuss knife crime, the prime minister announced that teenagers caught carrying illegal knives would automatically face prosecution. The new regime came into force immediately.Previously, teenagers caught carrying illegal knives for the first time were often given a caution.According to Home Office figures, 17% of people prosecuted for carrying a knife went to prison in 2006, compared with 6% in 1996, and the average sentence length has increased by almost a third over the same period.In his interview, which Cameron followed with a speech in Glasgow this morning on the same theme, the Conservative leader said: "We have to send the strongest possible message that carrying a knife is completely unacceptable in Britain, end of subject."The government should say not just there is a presumption you will be prosecuted if you carry a knife, but that there will be a presumption you will go to jail."It is not a minor offence. There is no excuse for carrying a knife when you walk out of your door."Cameron told the paper that he would expect the police to use "common sense" and that he was not talking about people who had a reasonable excuse, such as needing a penknife for angling."This is about kitchen knives stuffed down the front of tracksuits," Cameron said."Sometimes people wrongly think it's a defensive move. It's the stupidest thing in the world. Many people end up being killed with the knife they took out for protection."In the past politicians have found it difficult getting the courts to impose mandatory sentences, because judges resent attempts to remove their discretion in sentencing.But Cameron said he wanted the SGC to be made more accountable to parliament."We give up our rights to take vengeance when we are wronged and place that duty with the state. We bloody well want the state to do it properly," he said.At a briefing about drugs in prison this morning, Straw said that the government was asking the SGC to reconsider advice that is due to come into force next month.Under the guidelines, magistrates have been told that knife possession can be punished by a fine in the least serious cases, such as when the weapon has not been used to threaten. Straw said this would be reviewed, but added: "It's not a U-turn." He said: "We will be talking to other ministers about it and we will make an announcement." The government can ask the SGC to review its own guidelines if there is concern that a sentence is no longer appropriate. On the subject of knife crime, Straw noted that an independent academic survey published in April said the number of people treated in hospital for serious violence fell 12% last year. He also revealed that his son, William, had had a "knife pulled on him" in his first days at secondary school in the early 1990s. William had been forced to "hand over his pocket money", Straw said. The incident was reported to the police, he added.