The news that convicted rapist, Iorworth Hoare, has won £7m pounds on the National Lottery has enraged the tabloids, especially The Sun. Aside from the fact that any enemy of the Sun would usually be a friend of mine, I am enraged at the nerve of those who complain about this man's good fortune. The lottery is just that, a game of chance, absolutely random.It follows therefore that some lottery winners will be nice people and some not so nice. If you don't like that, then don't play the lottery, or better still, petition the government to scrap it. It is, after all, nothing more than a tax on the poor. (I live in a poor area of Manchester and it appals me to see the queues at the newsagents every Wednesday and Saturday night - impoverished people taking part in a desperate attempt to change their lives. And does any of the 'good causes' cash filter back to Gorton? It is a barren wasteland with hardly an amenity worthy of the name.)Anyway, back to our lottery winner. I assume that the main reason for the collective ire is the fact that this man is a rapist as opposed to say a burglar, robber or fraudster? Well, rape is an extremely nasty offence and most rapists are extremely nasty people. (I have lived among many of them for many years. That is the nature of prisons, they contain lots of people who you wouldn't necessarily choose as next door neighbours.) Or, as I should and do say, extremely nasty people - at the time they committed the offence.That is the nub of this matter and indeed, the nub of the whole matter of penal philosophy as it is supposed to operate in this country. Put simply, it is that the very worst of us have the capacity within us to change for the better. Either you believe in that creed, or you don't. If you do, then stop moaning about this man and let him spend his money as he chooses - though a personal hope would be that he has the good sense to donate a decent amount of his haul to a suitable recipient, such as Women Against Rape, for example.If however, you are in the 'hell-fire-and-brimstone-hanging-is far-too-good-for-them' camp, then you would presumably wish for society to burn all offenders, which of course would guarantee that they will not offend again.Let us, for a moment, look at the possibility that Iorworth Hoare is a changed person - no longer the character that attempted to rape a 60-year-old woman in a park in Leeds, some 16 years ago. Do you have any idea what will have happened to him in these intervening years? I cannot comment on the individual treatment he will have received because I don't know him and the prison service, quite rightly, will not give such details out. I can however, give you an insight into the general treatment of sex offenders; firstly because the treatment of such people has long been a matter of interest to me and particularly because on my last prison sentence I spent a couple of years on a mixed VP (vulnerable prisoner) and normal convict wing.When I'd arrived at the nick, I wasn't aware that it had such a wing and I could have opted out of what was an experimental regime. I chose to try it. They asked me to sign a form stating that I would not abuse the VPs, most of whom were sex offenders. That wasn't necessary, as I'd long stopped playing the game of nonce-bashing, taking the view that it was simply another form of bullying. (In jail, if you are 5ft 6in and a nonce then you are a nonce. If however you are 6ft 5in and a nonce then the picture invariably clouds over.The sex offenders were required to take part in a sex offenders treatment programme (SOTP) Among other things, they were required to undergo intensive group therapy. Those that I spoke to described these sessions as extremely harrowing. They were forced by peer pressure to confront the full enormity of their crimes.One day, a sex offender came to my cell for advice. It seemed that the therapy had worked to the extent that he wanted to contact the police and admit further offences and he wanted the name of a decent local solicitor.I obliged him, while reminding him that he would, without doubt, receive extra imprisonment. He was adamant that his conscience required nothing less that a confession.He contacted the police, was duly charged and eventually received a further sentence of several years. Passing sentence, the judge told him that he would have given a much longer sentence were it not for the fact that the crimes would almost certainly not have come to light without the confession.Compare that account with the 'treatment' that sex offenders would get prior to the introduction of SOTP. It would start in the jail's reception area. A screw would shout: "nonce coming through", whereupon all the cons who were available would proceed to kick the guy, as a 'coming in' present.The offender would then be segregated, under Rule 43 on the nonces' wing along with the other 'beasts'. For the remainder of their sentence, these guys would be physically and verbally abused by staff and inmates at every opportunity.The consequence of this treatment was that the nonces would see themselves as victims rather than offenders and leave jail feeling sorry for themselves, rather than pity the poor souls they had abused.Who benefited from this treatment? Not the offender, not society and certainly not the victims.You can be absolutely certain that long before he arrived at Leyhill open prison, Hoare would have undergone years of the sort of SOTP treatment described above. He will have been risk-assessed thoroughly before the decision was made to try him out in the community. We know that following his lottery win he returned to Leyhill under his own steam.Now he is in a category B prison, probably Bristol, or maybe Wandsworth, or Pentonville. These prisons are overcrowded dustbins, the worst ends of the penal system. Normally, to be sent there after being in open conditions, a prisoner would have to have committed an extremely serious offence against prison discipline (Something like a second positive test for heroin).Hoare's offence was that he won the lottery. 'You pays yer money and takes yer chance'. That's all he did.The home secretary, David Blunkett, has taken time from his busy life to write in The Sun today about this prisoner's lottery win. This man, who has overall responsibility for the prison service has yet to utter a single word in public about Adam Rickwood, the 14-year-old child who apparently took his own young life in custody last week.Nor has he commented publicly on the fact that so far this year, 11 women have died -again seemingly by their own hands - in women's prisons. Indeed the only time Mr Blunkett has spoken of a death in prison was the infamous occasion when this wretched home secretary said that he debated the merits of opening a bottle of champagne when he was telephoned early one morning with the news that a convicted murderer had ended his own life in jail.And you think that a convict winning the lottery is a national disgrace.· Eric Allison is the Guardian's prisons correspondent