Police investigating a house fire that left two children dead appealed today for anyone with photographs or video of the scene to come forward.Niamh and Cayden Maynard, aged five and two, died in the blaze at their home in Buxton, Derbyshire, on Friday night after they became trapped upstairs.Their mother, named as 23-year-old Fiona Adams, escaped from the property with her eight-month-old baby Kiernan by jumping out of a bedroom window on to a trampoline in the garden.She was said to be in a comfortable and stable condition in a specialist burns unit at Wythenshawe hospital, Manchester. The condition of the baby boy, who is at the Royal Manchester children's hospital, was not known. The children's father, named in reports as James Maynard, was at work at the time of the fire.A 17-year-old arrested in the early hours of yesterdaySaturday in connection with the blaze was released from custody and was no longer a suspect, police said.Assistant Chief Constable Steve Cotterill said officers were called to the house before the fire broke out, when Adams contacted a non-emergency number to report noise and nuisance in the garden. Officers visited the house, spoke to her and searched the area, but nothing was found.An hour later emergency services were called when the blaze broke out just before midnight. Because of the earlier callout, the Independent Police Complaints Commission was informed of the incident.Cotterill said: "My heart goes out to the family, the friends affected by this terrible tragedy. It always feels more difficult to me to comprehend when young children are involved. We do not know the cause of the fire as yet at this stage, but we are treating it as suspicious because on the face of it there is no apparent obvious accidental cause."Neighbour Karen Jackson, 29, said: "They were brilliant, a lovely family. Fiona loved the kids to bits, they would do anything for the kids."Floral tributes and teddy bears dedicated to Niamh and Cayden were piling up at the scene near the house. One read: "Cayden, rest in peace little man." Another said: "Niamh, rest in peace angel."