Detectives are searching for two men after a 37-year-old French chef was stabbed to death in Southend, Essex, following an open-air classical music concert.Reynald Duchene, of South Woodham Ferrers near Chelmsford, was leaving the park where the Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra had been performing when he became involved in an "altercation" with a group of men and women late on Saturday evening, police said.Two men in the group were seen to be having a "confrontation" with Duchene. One of them was described by police as being dressed all in white.Duchene had been watching the concert in the town's Priory Park, with his partner Paula Haddlesey, her teenage children and friends. He was attacked in a nearby street. His friends are believed to have seen part of the altercation. The victim was found collapsed in a street, police said.A senior officer suggested that Duchene may not have initially realised that he had been stabbed, while members of the public may have seen the altercation and not realised how serious it was. A knife was found and detectives are trying to establish whether it was the murder weapon.The men and women involved in the row were described by police as "possibly of Mediterranean background". A spokeswoman said one of the men seen confronting him was 20, about 5ft 10in, had a tanned complexion and was dressed all in white. "He was slim with short, dark spiky hair," she added. "His clothing was three-quarter length white trousers and a white top with a large Nike tick logo."The second man was of "similar size and complexion", she said."We're still trying to clarify the exact sequence of events," said Detective Chief Inspector Godfrey O'Toole, who is leading the inquiry. "We're asking anyone who was in the vicinity of Priory Crescent and Victoria Avenue at this time to contact us." He said detectives would trawl closed-circuit television footage to try to spot the two wanted men.Superintendent Stuart Ashton said: "It would appear that the man has gone to get the car then been stabbed after becoming involved in some sort of argument … These two men had to have got away from the area somehow. Someone must know something about them."