A Sikh man was jailed for 14 years last night after being found guilty of plotting to murder his daughter, her Jewish boyfriend and the man he mistook for the lover's father in a so-called honour killing.Kalvinder Dosanjh, 51, tried to hire an assassin because he believed his daughter, Sanjit, 24, had brought disgrace on his family by running away with Temple Jazac. He planned to have Malcolm Calver, whom he wrongly believed to be Mr Jazac's father, shot dead, in the hope that the couple would come out of hiding attend his funeral, where they could be targeted. But the plot was foiled when Dosanjh, from Rochester, Kent, and his accomplice Jagjit Singh Rai, a 54-year-old restaurant owner, approached an undercover policeman to carry out the killings. Officers found a 12-bore sawn-off shotgun in Dosanjh's van when they arrested the pair in September last year. Rai admitted the conspiracy before the trial began, and was sentenced to nine years. But Dosanjh denied three counts of soliciting murder and one of possessing a firearm, claiming he only wanted to track down his daughter because he was worried about her. But it was revealed in court that he promised to pay £10,000 for each killing. The Old Bailey jury convicted him by a majority of 11-1. The court heard attempts were made to reconcile Sanjit Dosanjh, who did not testify in the case, with her family. But the outcome of these efforts was unclear. Brian Altman, prosecuting, said: "The issue of honour was such paramount importance to Dosanjh that he was perfectly happy to see his own daughter dead as well as the man she loved." Sanjit Dosanjh fell in love with Mr Jazac, a 43-year-old builder, three years ago, and ran away to live with him in Sheffield. Detectives received a tip-off that Dosanjh and Rai were looking for a hitman, and arranged for Rai to be put in touch with an undercover officer, posing as a gun for hire. Rai first met the officer in Forest Gate, east London, in July 2003, and introduced him to Dosanjh, who said he wanted Sanjit killed because her partner was not Sikh. He also wanted Mr Jazac and his father killed. Mr Altman said: "He was told that he would have to kill the father first. He was told, 'Just knock at the door and you shoot, you pull, bang bang.' The plan was first to kill the boyfriend's father and then the boyfriend and daughter when they attended the funeral." The suspects had several meetings with the undercover officer, and on, one occasion, Dosanjh drove him to a south London address and pointed out a man who lived there, who he believed was Mr Jazac's father. Outside the court, Detective Chief Inspector Ron Scott said: "Dosanjh couldn't deal with the shame he felt his daughter had brought upon his family by beginning a relationship with someone outside her religion and culture and resorted to extreme methods. "It is shocking to think three people, one in no way connected to Dosanjh, would have been killed for 'honour'. No killing is honourable. It is simply murder." So-called honour killings have taken place for centuries within many cultures and religions worldwide. UK police feel they are only starting to get to grips with the problem. Scotland Yard set up a unit last year, and is re-examining 122 murders to see whether they fall into this category. Heshu Yones, a 16-year-old Kurdish Muslim from west London, was stabbed to death by her father, Abdalla, two years ago because she was dating a Christian boy. The father was jailed for life. There have been 12 such murders in the UK in the past year, but police say many more may have been covered up, and some carried out abroad. A 19-year-old from Bradford, West Yorkshire, is thought to have been killed in Pakistan after a boyfriend dedicated a song to her on the radio.