The riots have provoked a variety of kneejerk responses from political figures and community members. There has been much debate about the issues underlying the shocking social unrest – with Ken Clarke weighing in yesterday, describing rioters as that we have witnesseda feral underclass. However, these debates are mainly in political arenas, with minimal involvement from actual members of affected communities.When a negative event occurs a common response is to find a social group to blame. There was uproar following the outrageous racial slurs of David Starkey in which he blamed the black community for the riots. But there has been less anger over the portrayal of the riots in much of the media as perpetrated mainly by young people. These ageist and racist interpretations are not the correct way to understand the riots; a diverse cross-section of people were involved, whether by going out and looting, buying looted products or advocating this behaviour.People such as myself who are law-abiding and aspirational and had no involvement in the riots, but are young and live in estates in areas where riots took place, have begun to be viewed in a discriminatory manner. That we should be labelled simply because a minority decide to behave in a rebellious manner is wholly unfair. There are deep-rooted societal issues behind the recent unrest that must be properly addressed to avoid a repetition in the future.Since the riots the breakdown in communication between authorities and communities has been exacerbated. The police presence on estates such as the one I live on has increased in an attempt to restore order. Some members of the community interpret this as the police being oppressive towards particular social groups and a particular demographic. I disagree: the police are here to serve the community, and the Metropolitan police are, on the whole, endeavouring to respond to the mindless criminality we have witnessed and make our cities safer. However, there have been some reports of police brutality and abuse of power; sensitive policing is vital at this time.Politicians such as David Cameron have made it quite clear that they advocate relentless punishment of those involved in the rioting. This, he believes, will teach responsibility and act as a deterrent. It is true that people must take full responsibility for their actions, especially when they have devastated many lives and flourishing independent businesses. However, in cases of violent crime it is too easy to be compassionate only towards the victims. Although the behaviour of the rioters is inexcusable, punishments should be given with wisdom and great care to avoid labelling young people and isolating them as criminals who will inevitably reoffend. The reoffending rates for young people who have been in prison are alarmingly high. Simply sending rioters to prison may not be the best option.Society remains in a precarious state, although things seem peaceful at the moment. Rather than passing the blame and developing one-sided theories as to why people were rioting we should consult communities and give a voice to help create tangible solutions to societal issues. I fear that the failure to properly dissect the situation will mean that we do not reach a genuine understanding of the issues contributing to such social unrest – and that the 2011 riots are just a taste of what is to come.