Police yesterday launched a review of security after an intruder armed with a machete stormed the headquarters of MI5 and the Northern Ireland Office, wounding two security guards.The man, in his 40s, is thought to have gone berserk after entering Thames House in central London, where both services are based. Police said the man went first into the Northern Ireland Office, where he struggled with security guards. He is then thought to have run outside and round the corner to the entrance to the lobby of MI5.Officers from an armed response unit shot the intruder twice with a stun gun before he slumped to the ground in the street. A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "At 1.15pm we were called to Thames House, Millbank, to reports of an intruder armed with a knife. "Police attended and discovered a man in his 40s outside the building armed with a machete and a large knife. He was challenged by officers and refused to cooperate. "A Taser [stun gun] was discharged by police and the man was arrested on suspicion of burglary and assault and taken by an ambulance to hospital." The man was tackled by officers from SO16, the Metropolitan police's diplomatic protection unit. The spokesman added: "At this early stage we believe the man entered the building by the Northern Ireland Office entrance on the corner of Millbank and Horseferry Road. "During confrontations, one of the security guards suffered cuts to the hand and another guard suffered cuts to the arm. They were treated by paramedics at the scene and then taken to hospital where they remain in a stable condition. "Detectives from the specialist crime directorate are investigating the incident." The attack immediately raised concerns about security arrangements at Thames House, which is on Millbank, close to the Houses of Parliament. The MI5 entrance opens straight on to the street next to the river Thames but there are no protective concrete blocks outside and, unlike the headquarters of the secret intelligence service, MI6, at Vauxhall Bridge, there is no perimeter wall. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that the Metropolitan police have been invited to undertake a joint review of security at Thames House." MI5 has recently been reviewing the security arrangements of the nearby House of Commons after protesters from Fathers for Justice launched a flour-bomb attack on Tony Blair during prime minister's questions in May. The attackers, demanding that fathers have more access to their children after a marriage break-up, threw purple powder from an area of the public gallery reserved for guests of MPs and members of the House of Lords. Taser guns, which produce a high electrical voltage to stun a target, have been in use in London since last year. Human rights groups have condemned Taser guns, and British companies are banned from exporting them, but the police have promoted them as safer than plastic bullets, which can be lethal. MI5 is responsible for UK domestic security. It moved to Thames House in 1994 to provide more modern office space to cope with updated computer technology.