A few weeks ago the Metropolitan police launched a recruitment drive - a "call to arms" as it was put in the force's in-house magazine - aimed at tempting an extra 130 officers into its SO19 firearms unit by March to combat the growing threat of terrorism."This is the best firearms unit in the country. We have the best firearms training school in Europe," claimed Commander Phil Gormley. "If anyone thought about joining SO19, this is the time." Over the last few days, it has seemed anything but a good time to become a firearms officer. By Tuesday night, 125 members of the 400-strong unit had vowed to down weapons in support of two colleagues suspended after an inquest jury ruled that they had unlawfully killed Harry Stanley when they mistook the table leg he was carrying for a shotgun. Others in the royal and diplomatic protection units were threatening to follow suit, and there were rumblings across Britain that firearms officers in other forces could join the dispute. The Met insisted that London remained safe, but it would be surprising if the developments were not being followed closely by the terrorists who the government and the police maintain are waiting to strike. Sir John Stevens's call yesterday for officers to be given more protection brought the dispute to an end, at least for the moment, but it may not be enough to guarantee that the state-of-the-art training centre near Gravesend in Kent which was so highly praised by Cmdr Gormley will fill with eager firearms recruits over the coming months. For several years there has been increasing concern among rank and file officers and police chiefs that they are operating in almost impossible conditions. Some claim they are increasingly unsure about the circumstances in which they are justified in firing, and are angry at the tortuous procedures they often face when they do. Many support the commissioner's point that the rules need to be changed in a post-September 11 world, when police may be facing a different sort of gunman. The bible of the firearms officer remains, for the moment, the Association of Chief Police Officers' "manual of guidance on police use of firearms". It gives a step-by-step guide to how to "identify, locate, contain and neutralise the threat posed". Firearms officers must identify themselves and warn their target they intend to shoot. They are required to give "sufficient time for the warnings to be observed". Once a decision has been taken to open fire, the manual makes it clear that the officer should act so that the suspect is hit and rendered unable to shoot back. "When it is considered necessary to open fire on a subject, police officers need to shoot to stop an immediate threat to life," it says. Paragraph two of chapter five is the one which is drilled into budding firearms officers. "Ultimate responsibility for firing a weapon," it states, "rests with the individual officer, who is answerable ultimately to the law in the courts." Police carrying arms in London is not new. In 1884, following the murder of two constables, officers were given permission to carry revolvers ("comforters" as they nicknamed them) on uniformed nighttime patrols. In 1936 the revolvers were taken back and locked in a cupboard at the station. If an officer had a "good reason" to take one out, permission was sought from the station sergeant. The Met's present firearms department started in December 1966 after three plainclothes officers were shot dead as they challenged armed robbers. Since then it has developed hugely. SO19 now has 400 officers, the vast majority men, on its books. Some - the Met declines to say how many - are specialist firearms officers, the unit's elite section. They have expertise in particularly delicate situations such as sieges, terrorist arrests and raids on drug dealers. The remainder bear the brunt of the more routine work, such as patrolling in the armed response vehicles, ARVs or "Trojans". Crewed by three officers, the ARVs cover areas of the city where gun crime is more common. The workload of the ARVs has increased dramatically since they were introduced in 1991. In their first year they were actively deployed (defined as officers getting out of their vehicles) 132 times. By 2002 this had risen to 2,490 times. Such is the discipline of its officers, the Met argues, that since 1997 there have been only 20 incidents in which officers have fired shots, leading to seven deaths and 11 injuries. Whatever the rights and wrongs of the Stanley case, the Met's training methods are emulated by forces across the globe. During an initial two-week course, recruits are taught the basics of the Glock 17 self-loading pistol. At subsequent courses they may also be schooled in the Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine gun, and in specialist weapons such as sniper rifles. Areas of the Gravesend centre can be transformed into street scenes and rooms, allowing scenarios to be acted out. It is no small job ensuring that the force's firearms officers are trained. On top of the 400 SO19 officers, another 2,000 or so are licensed to carry weapons for guard and other duties. But it remains to be seen whether the instructors will be a little less busy than they would have been had SO19's recruitment drive not been disrupted by this week's events.