Michael Shields and three of his friends were staying at the Kristal hotel in Varna on 30 May 2005 when the barman, Martin Georgiev, was subjected to a vicious attack with a paving slab outside the Big Ben diner.A witness to the attack, Daniella Krumova, said Georgiev's attacker was wearing a "white sports top". Another witness, a British holidaymaker who had befriended Georgiev during that evening, pointed police in the direction of the Kristal hotel.Police apprehended two Liverpool supporters who were unknown to Shields and his friends: Bradley Thompson and Graham Sankey, who were staying in the room next door, no 421. The security guard at the hotel, Miroslav Radev, said Shields was in his room, no 419, at the time of the attack.Police returned to look for a third man, a friend of Thompson and Sankey called Anthony Wilson. They knocked on Shields's door, woke him, made him put on a white T-shirt, and drove him to the scene of the crime where he was kept sitting in the car for 30 minutes in view of witnesses who were still being questioned by police.Shields, who had no previous criminal record, was handcuffed to a radiator in the lobby of the police station in full view of witnesses coming and going from the station. He was put in three identification parades with just three other men, all of very dissimilar appearance, where only one witness positively identified him.Georgiev told police he had not had a good view of his attacker's face. The media published pictures of Shields's face before the trial, and he was then identified by other witnesses while in the dock, although they had not previously viewed a parade.Shields was convicted of attempted murder and sentenced to 15 years' jail. Wilson and Thompson were convicted of affray.Sankey issued a signed confession through his lawyer two days after Shields's conviction, saying that he was "very, very drunk" on the night of the attack and that he "could not let an innocent man take the blame for what he had done". Sankey refused to be tried in Bulgaria and is alleged to have retracted his confession later, but no explanation has ever been offered as to why he might falsely confess.The Bulgarian court discounted Sankey's confession as his account was inconsistent with known events of that night.Sankey originally told police that although he was outside the diner with Thompson and Wilson directly before the attack, he turned back. Radev stated that he saw Sankey returning to the hotel after Thompson and Wilson, wearing a white T-shirt. Wilson and Thompson confirmed that Sankey was one of their social circle but they did not know Shields.Sankey is currently in jail for five months for racially abusing a barman after an evening drinking in Liverpool city centre. He has four previous convictions.In November 2007, the Labour MP Louise Ellman used the protection of parliamentary privilege to reveal new evidence that Sankey and another man, Steven Clare, were the perpetrators of the attack on Georgiev.A new alibi for Shields, a Finnish woman who did not know Shields but went back to his room with friends, recalled that his bed was occupied during the relevant time.The witness who had pointed police to the Kristal hotel saw the photographs of Shields in the media upon his return to the UK. He does not know Shields, but said categorically that he was not one of the men who attacked Georgiev.Shields's family have led the campaign for his release, with strong support in Liverpool, including a march for his release in April 2009. The football club attracted attention from the Football Association after players wore "Free Michael now" T-shirts before a game in December 2008. They also contributed to fundraising for the £90,000 fine imposed by Bulgarian authorities.Shields's father, Michael snr, said: "He's very anxious. The first thing he says when we speak on the phone is, 'Have you heard any news?' I think there'll be street parties when he comes out, he's that much loved in Liverpool."