Britain may have thought that gangs were an issue for foreign lands, but recent events from London to Manchester have transformed our nation's political landscape. As politicians declare an "all-out war" and reject leniency towards gangs, the need for accurate reflection is vital.Many have spoken of a US model, but another region further south may offer important lessons, too. Violence from gangs or maras in Central America threatens economic growth, citizen security and democratic development. It is often met with zero-tolerance policing, with policies such as the mano dura (iron fist) implemented in such countries as Honduras and El Salvador. David Cameron should be encouraged to consider the failures of these policies on gangs and social violence in these countries.Politicians in Central America often revert to the tactic of "punitive populism", where politicians bring in heavy-handed legislation on crime that proves popular with voters. The mano dura policies in Central America are repressive, but easy to formulate and implement and can bring in quick, quantifiable results such as arrests, which can often be vital vote winners. However, these policies demonstrate the systematic failures of governmental anti-crime strategies, advocate mass arrests and encourage policing according to stereotype (with gang tattoos and white vests representing Central America's hoodies and bandanas). Gangs transform their customary practices in a bid to outwit state authorities, and those imprisoned often developed an increased sense of emotional ties to their "gang community".Heavy-handed approaches offer political soundbites and media headlines, but fail to understand the complex nature of gangs and social violence. Gangs are a social problem that cannot be resolved by repressive policing. The words of one youth in London, who stated that the police "have a problem with all urban youth. All youth. White, black, whatever", show how we are at risk of criminalising the act of being young.The Central American examples underline the circular nature of gangs. Reflecting on the cases of El Salvador and Honduras shows that a lack of opportunities can lead to the increasing appeal of gang membership for certain susceptible youths. Gangs often become involved in crime and other illegal activities. When crime is on the increase, politicians implement zero-tolerance policies to crack down on gang members and "parade" arrest figures to the media and voting public. Increased arrests can lead to an overstretched judiciary and overcrowded prisons, which spiral the costs of security and the overall judicial and penal system, diverting government spending away from basic services and jobs for susceptible young members of the community.Central American mano dura policies have failed to understand the underlying problems that generate gangs in the first place, including social exclusion and the lack of educational and employment opportunities for at-risk youth. However, certain local and municipal programmes implemented in Colombia, El Salvador and Nicaragua have demonstrated how a more holistic approach to violence and gang reduction can be more successful. These projects offer a model of how municipal authorities can work with the public and police towards a more participatory and pragmatic approach. The specific local context shapes gang membership and the related levels of violence. Therefore it is of vital importance to develop a partnership between civil society, NGOs, the private sector and local government in each town or city.Declaring "war" on gangs and social violence will not bring major success. Reflection and extensive analysis would show that "rushed justice" and a heavy-handed approach will be wide of the mark.