Prostitutes are to be offered an "exit strategy" which will include drug and alcohol rehabilitation, housing, and basic skills training while the men who pay for their services are heavily fined.But the Home Office team proposing the biggest overhaul of prostitution laws since the 50s has rejected "tolerance" or "managed" zones where sex workers would be allowed to operate, monitored by the police and provided with health facilities. An early draft of the consultation paper due out in a few weeks' time says: "In practice, in city centres where they have been tried, the selection of the area has often proved to be highly contentious and there have been difficult issues for policing and control. "Managed zones can be highly resource intensive for both the police and the local authority. "We would need very strong and convincing arguments of benefits before setting off down a road towards what has so far proved to be such a difficult measure. Such a move would also normalise the concept of street prostitution and presuppose its continuing existence - assumptions we need to challenge." Managed zones have been unofficially tried in several British cities, including Edinburgh, Glasgow, Manchester and Bolton. But a source close to the review team said yesterday that press reports this week that the review would recommend a national strategy of tolerance zones were wrong. An estimated 80,000 women work in the sex trade in Britain. Increasingly in recent years, women and girls are being trafficked into prostitution from abroad. Under current laws paying for sex is not a crime but prostitution is regulated by making the associated activities of soliciting, kerb crawling, procuring, brothel-keeping and living off immoral earnings criminal offences. There are more than 35 offences, including some dating from the 50s. The Magistrates' Association has repeatedly called for an overhaul of the law, saying it is ineffective and unenforceable, and women appear in court time and again. A Home Office green paper published in 2000 acknowledged that the law on soliciting and loitering for women was archaic and the official description "common prostitute" was demeaning. The review team is expected to recommend a crackdown on the men who pay for the services of prostitutes, shifting the focus of the enforcement measures from sex workers to the clients who keep the business going. It suggests that there may be something to be learned from the experience in Sweden, "where the spotlight now shines very clearly on all purchasers of commercial sex". Persistent kerb crawlers could be penalised by heavier fines, more use of the new penalty of disqualification from driving, introduced last January, and more antisocial behaviour orders, with those who break them being jailed. The review will recommend legislation to decriminalise prostitutes under 18, treating them as victims of child abuse and offering support and protection. Decriminalising brothels is another option which is being considered. Although a single prostitute operating from a room or a flat commits no crime, when two or three share premises it is considered to be a brothel, which is illegal. Critics of the current law argue that allowing two or three women to work together would increase their safety without necessarily causing a local nuisance. The definition of a brothel could be changed to focus on situations in which prostitutes are exploited by pimps. Licensed brothels could help to break the link between prostitutes and controlling pimps and allow for mandatory health checks. But the review team says that the experience in Australia and Europe suggests licensed brothels have not produced a safe working environment, nor kept out child prostitutes and women trafficked from abroad. Nearly all street-based prostitutes are drug users, heroin and crack being the most widely used drugs. And many are homeless, sleeping rough or in crack houses. Any exit strategy to help women out of prostitution, therefore, will need to provide housing linked to drug treatment, childcare, basic skills training and vocational retraining, the team believes. Most prostitutes have criminal records, making it harder for them to get jobs. But the government is planning reforms to the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act which will limit the need to disclose convictions for prostitution.