A serial rapist who went unchecked for years because of police mistakes was jailed for life today.Kirk Reid, a women's football referee who police believe was responsible for more than 100 attacks in 23 years, was told he would serve a minimum of seven and a half years in prison before being entitled to apply for parole. The judge criticised early police investigations – which left Reid, 44, free to stalk the streets – and said Reid could have been caught sooner.Reid, of Colliers Wood, south London, was sentenced for 28 attacks on 27 women, including two rapes. He admitted two indecent assaults.The rapes took place in 1995 and 2002, and the series of indecent assaults took place between August 2001 and October 2007.He also admitted two counts of possessing indecent images of children on his home computer. But the judge at Kingston crown court said she was convinced Reid's offending went back to 1984. He admitted raping a woman at that time in evidence but it was not included as a charge."You have been committing these serious violent offences against women since 1984, and that means that your false self and your behaviour is deeply entrenched within you," Judge Shani Barnes said."To say you have a hostility to women is stating the blindingly obvious. It is not just a deep-rooted hostility against women, it is something very dark and very dangerous."Detectives believe the 44-year-old was a prolific attacker and continue to investigate whether he is behind a further 71 assaults. Police sources believe that more than 100 women could have fallen victim to Reid.Most of his victims were between the ages of 20 and 40 but Reid's youngest victim was 17 and the eldest a 61-year-old woman. The attacks include the rape of a woman Reid grabbed on the street in March 2002 and the rape of a woman in a flat in 1995.Reid focused on the route of the 155 night bus along the A24 corridor in south London. The bus service is used by many people heading home from central London and passes several tube stations.He waited until his victims walked into quiet side streets and they were often outside their homes when he grabbed them from behind.The Metropolitan police was forced to apologise to Reid's victims after it was disclosed he was not arrested until four years after he became a suspect.Officials at the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) are investigating blunders that allowed him to remain free for so long.Reid was the second serious sex attacker to slip through the police net, and the case highlights investigative failures in London. A second inquiry is under way into how taxi driver rapist John Worboys, who drugged and attacked his passengers, evaded detection.Both cases led to a shakeup of the way rape and serious sexual assaults are investigated within the Met.