By the time Tony Martin made his first court appearance charged with the murder of teenage burglar Fred Barras, his case had become a cause célèbre. Neighbours and strangers alike held a demonstration outside King's Lynn magistrates court demanding his release and some sections of the media were already lionising him. He was depicted as the ordinary man who, plagued by burglars and let down by the police, had struck back but was now being persecuted for his actions. Over the coming months, politicians, commentators and public opinion turned the Norfolk farmer into something approaching a folk hero.After he was convicted of murdering Barras, 16, and wounding his accomplice, Brendon Fearon, William Hague's Conservative party promised to change the law. The issue so troubled Tony Blair that he wondered in a memo, which was leaked, whether Labour was losing touch with public opinion. Police chiefs vowed to do more to combat rural crime and money from members of the public flooded into an appeal fund. The burglars, even 16-year-old Barras, were vilified. But Tony Martin was always an odd kind of hero. He thought of himself - and few contradicted him - as an "eccentric" who preferred the company of the three rottweiler dogs he lived with on his dilapidated farm, Bleak House. He slept in his work clothes and boots on top of his bed rather than in it and had a collection of teddy bears whom he thought of as "very nice people". And his case, rehearsed during a tense and often dramatic trial at Norwich last year, was of course never as simple as his champions would have had it. From the outset Martin claimed that he opened fire on Barras and Fearon, who between them had a string of convictions, in self defence. He claimed his home in the remote fenland village of Emneth Hungate, near Wisbeach, had been plagued by burglars for years and had lost faith in the police. There were two crucial issues at stake: where Martin was standing when he opened fire on the burglars with a Winchester pump action shotgun - which incidentally he claimed he had found - and his mental state at the time. Martin's story is that he was in his bedroom when he was woken by the sound of the raiders breaking in. He said he fired from the rickety stairs into his breakfast room after a torch was shone into his eyes. The prosecution accused Martin of lying. It said he was waiting for the burglars in the dark on the ground floor of his home and had effectively "executed" Barras. Forensic tests concluded that at least two of the shots must have been fired by Martin while he was downstairs. But Martin's position when he fired the first shot - the one which killed Barras - is vital. Martin's defence took the "tactical" decision of going along with the theory that all the shots had been fired while downstairs, as its alternative was to have to explain why Martin had fired once from the stairs then pursued the raiders downstairs. Such a scenario did not fit with the idea of a terrified man trying to defend himself. As to his mental state, the prosecution depicted Martin as an angry man. It pointed out that he had violent views about burglars and especially about travellers - Barras was from a travellers' community. He had once talked of "putting gypsies in one of his fields surrounded by barbed wire and machine gunning them". His defence maintained he was terrified. During the appeal it has been argued by his new legal team - he sacked the old one - that the trial defence could have argued more strongly that the murder charge could have been reduced to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility. It is thought, however, that Martin, an intensely private man from an old farming family, did not wish his defence to focus on his mental state and history. But the jury clearly believed he fired in anger, and convicted him. In one television poll soon after the verdict, 85% of those who voted said they believed the jury had got it wrong. During the time that the leaked memo was front page news, a no lesser figure than Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice and presiding judge in Martin's appeal, claimed judges were being forced to pass wrong sentences because parliament had taken away their discretion in some cases by imposing mandatory sentences. It is not an uncommon view. Many judges feel uneasy about the mandatory life sentence for murder as it, for instance, means serial murderers and mercy killers automatically receive the same sentence. The Martin case might ultimately lead to a change in law. Martin lives quietly in prison, though his fame has led some inmates to try to provoke him. He does not mix much with others and continues to sleep fully dressed and on top of the bed. Upon his release, Martin has said he wants to return to Bleak House, "depending on the season" and "when the mood is right". Martin has said he will not own another gun and would not take the law into his own hands again if faced with burglars. He breaks down when pressed to speak about Barras, apparently unable to accept that he is responsible for the boy's death. A longer version of this article will appear in the Guardian tomorrow