At a time when the proportion of rape cases that police are looking to charge has slumped to a third, it's unfortunate that we have a prime minister who can't decide whether or not he is a feminist. I do hope he makes up his mind soon, as the figures have been getting worse under each year of his government.In 2009-10, there were 15,074 cases of rape reported to the police. Of these, 7,683 – or 51% – were referred to the Crown Prosecution Service, where specially trained prosecutors would make a decision on whether to charge the suspect. Only the CPS can make that decision. If a rape case doesn't fall on a prosecutor's desk it doesn't get charged.In 2012-13, there were just 5,404 referrals, while the number of police-recorded rapes actually rose to 16,327. This would indicate that the proportion of rape cases referred to prosecutors for charging has fallen to just one third. This may account for why the numbers of prosecutions are declining at a time when the underlying crime rate for rape is actually going up.While real progress has been made by the CPS on conviction rates, with so many cases being disposed of by the police, too few victims are benefiting from the advances made by prosecutors.Rape charities I have spoken to have expressed deep concern about the numbers of cases in which the police are taking no further action. They have also voiced consternation at the practice of cautions being issued for rape and other serious sexual assaults. There were 16 simple cautions issued for rape last year and 552 for sexual assault on males and females, according to figures from the Ministry of Justice.The justice secretary, Chris Grayling, told the Conservative party conference that he would yield to Labour's call to address this. This has to be welcomed, provided it is all that it is cracked up to be. However, we should remember that a simple caution is just one form of out-of-court disposal. Police powers to issue conditional cautions without making reference to the CPS are being expanded. How are we to make sure that the same problems that beset the use of simple cautions don't apply to these as well?On paper, there were actually quite stringent rules governing when it was acceptable to caution sexual offences and other serious violent crimes. Only a police officer of a certain rank could do it and they had to consult with the CPS first to make sure that this was the right thing to do. But there is scant evidence that this was actually happening.I sent a freedom of information request to police forces asking in how many instances they could confirm CPS approval had been sought for cautions issued for penetrative sexual assault on an adult female. It emerged from the 31 forces that responded that of 16 cautions issued for this particular indictable-only offence, for just three was there any mention of a referral to the CPS.My concern is that under the pressure of the cuts and reforms that are being inflicted on the criminal justice system, the same corners are going to be cut whatever Tory ministers say in their set-piece speeches.This is why, as the shadow home secretary, Yvette Cooper, announced at conference, a Labour government would appoint a domestic and sexual violence commissioner who would implement national standards for tackling rape and domestic violence to make sure that police and prosecutors worked together and implemented national standards. We would also, as outlined by the shadow justice secretary, Sadiq Khan, allow victims to track their case as it winds its way through the criminal justice system and legislate to strengthen victims' rights.The coalition government likes to talk tough on law and order but the gulf between rhetoric and reality keeps widening. The fact that no minister appears even to have acknowledged the slump in rape case referrals also reveals the full extent to which this government has a blind spot when it comes to women. As a result, we are going backwards on the investigation and prosecution of serious violent and sexual crime. We will continue going backwards for as long as we have a prime minister who regards feminism as a dirty word.