Four men found guilty of cheating the UK public purse of more than £5m by abusing a tax relief scheme aimed at helping movie production have been jailed for a total of 12 years.Anish Anand, Amit Kumar, Sanjeev Mirajkar and Afsana Karim were sentenced on 22 July at Croydon crown court for crimes committed over a four-year period between 2007 and 2011. As well as inventing bogus movies in order to receive tax relief, the quartet produced fake scripts, shooting schedules, crew and cast lists, detailed budgets and contracts with writers and producers, according to the Crown Prosecution Service. Among the movies dreamt up for the scam, which also involved filing fraudulent VAT returns, were fake projects titled Billy the Beagle and Kaun Bola.The men even stole the title and details from a legitimate film project, London Dreams, in order to pursue their scam. The tax relief scheme in question has been shut down by the government due to a number of instances of suspected exploitation by middlemen and tax consultants. It has now been replaced by a system that provides tax relief directly to film-makers and investors.Neena Jhawer, a specialist fraud lawyer at the CPS, told Screen Daily the men were involved in a "sophisticated fraud" that involved "an attack on two separate elements of the tax system: VAT and film tax relief." She said: "More than 20 film-industry companies were used to facilitate both elements of the fraud, many which were set up solely for that purpose. Over a period of four years, the defendants went to extraordinary lengths to establish an apparently legitimate front to what they were doing."Like all fraud, however, this case boiled down to two very simple notions: greed and dishonesty," she continued. "Had this fraud not been detected by HM Revenue and Customs, it would have cost them nearly £7m. This was clearly a very significant attack on the public purse and on a system designed to support and promote the UK film industry."Anand was sentenced to seven years in jail and disqualified as a company director for the same period. Mirajkar was jailed for 30 months, while Kumar got 18 months. Karim was handed a 12-month suspended sentence for two years and told to carry out 100 hours of unpaid work.