The main witness in the failed Damilola Taylor trial has said her life was in ruins after her decision to testify. The witness known only as "Bromley" told police she saw Damilola surrounded by four youths on a south London estate where the 10-year-old died after being cut by glass. Bromley, 15, was 12 at the time of Damilola's death. She told BBC Radio 4 she has not gone to school since and gets drunk every day to fight the permanent sadness she feels. She says she stands by her account that she had crouched behind a car and watched four boys break a bottle and stab Damilola in November 2000. All four accused of murdering the boy in Peckham, south London, were cleared at the Old Bailey in April last year. Trial judge Mr Justice Hooper ruled that her story "embellished with lies" and "demonstrably wrong". Bromley said: "That's my life's ruined. I have to stay in all the time, can't go to school, can't get education, when I'm older I can't get a job, what's good about that? Nothing, I'm just going to be another bum in the world. "Today, for instance, I'll go and drink some cider and get drunk, like I normally do. "That helps but after it I don't feel good all the time, I feel - sometimes I feel proper low from it. I always feel sad." In the interview, to be broadcast on Thursday, Bromley, who the BBC said received no payment, claimed not to have lied: "How could I - why am I going to go to the police and tell them that I see a little boy had died and then go ahead and go to court with it? I'm not that stupid, you know, I wouldn't go and do that. "I'm not lying about the boys. I'm not lying about the boys that did it, I didn't tell them other boys that did it, I told them the correct boys. "I've got to live with people thinking I'm a liar for the rest of my life, that ain't nice, that ain't nice at all." She now lives in protective custody with her mother and has moved 39 times. She said she first thought Damilola had been robbed, but when she heard he had died she was scared her failure to help him could land her in trouble. She said guilt had led her to come forward to the police. She told detectives she had been told about the killing by a friend but then changed her story, saying she was there and had seen it all. She was discredited when tapes of a police interview appeared with her singing "I'm in the money", which was taken as a reference to a £50,000 reward for information leading to the killers. "They're all jokes, I was a little girl," she said. "They can't expect me to be mature on the tapes can they? "And God's honest truth, before I went into that trial I didn't know about that money." During the Old Bailey trial she imploded on the witness stand during cross-examination by the defence barrister Courtney Griffiths QC. She called him "a lot rude" and added: "It was very hard and upsetting and I was just - when I used to come home I used to think about like loads of things because he upset me. "He stood there, yeah, and like tried to twist my head so I'd come out with the wrong answer." Bromley said not only does she not regret swearing at him but "should have slapped him" as well. "I think the judge, yeah, didn't know about girls like me, girls, 'cos I think the judge has seen girls that go to Sunday school and stuff like that." 