He was a judge and we were both guests at a legal dinner. Someone brought up the subject of rape and consent. "When I was young, we wouldn't have got anywhere if we'd taken no for an answer," declared the crusty Solomon. I don't know whether or not he presided over rape trials, but I do remember one of his brethren famously telling the jury: "Women who say no do not always mean no. It is not just a question of how she says it, how she shows it and makes it clear. If she doesn't want it she only has to keep her legs shut and she would not get it without force and there would be marks of force being used."That was 20 years ago. Any judge unwise enough to sum up like that in these days of gender-awareness training would be quietly shunted off to the golf course. It is now accepted that if a woman doesn't struggle but submits through fear of what might otherwise happen, it isn't true consent. Whether the woman consented or not - or whether the man honestly thought she was consenting - is still the dilemma at the heart of the rape trial. That is the central issue for the jury, yet it has little guidance on how to decide. The plummeting rape conviction rates - 7.5% of reported rapes end in conviction compared to 33% in 1977 - testify to just how hard a question it is for juries to answer. Now the government - as part of a package of reforms which have been incubating for more than two years - is proposing to define consent as "free agreement". The idea is to not to change the current law, but to clarify in statute for the first time what consent means. The aim is to make the law clearer, as an aid to preventing as well as prosecuting rape. The new law will spell out a range of circumstances, not exhaustive, in which it will be presumed there was no consent. One example is if the woman was asleep, unconscious, or too affected by alcohol or drugs to give free agreement. Some men claim that the reforms will place an impossible burden on them to show that the woman agreed to sex if she had had a few drinks beforehand. Wrong. It will not, repeat not, change the burden of proof in rape cases, which will still be on the prosecution. It will not be for the man to show that the woman consented. If his defence is that she did consent, it will still be for the prosecution to satisfy the jury that she didn't. Nor will it create a new hazard for men who have sex with a woman intoxicated by drink or high on drugs. The rule that a woman cannot agree to sex if she is too drunk or drugged to give consent is already well established in law. It dates back to a case in 1845, and is really a statement of the obvious. Rape is the denial of personal autonomy, removal of the right to say yes or no. A woman who is asleep, unconscious or in a state of extreme intoxication is in no position to say no. Men will still be able to invoke the defence of "honest belief" - that even if the woman wasn't consenting to sex, he honestly, however stupidly, thought she was. One woman MP, on learning that this was a defence to a rape charge, said she felt she was "moving through the looking glass and entering a world of make-believe". Although there are strict controls on questioning a woman about her sexual history when the defence is that she consented, if the man pleads honest belief the woman's past sex life is fair game in court. The most contentious issue for the Home Office working party, whose recommendations form the basis for the forthcoming bill, was whether the man's mistaken but honest belief should have to be reasonable, or whether it was enough that he held it, however unreasonably. They plumped for the latter but suggested tightening the law so the man could not use the defence if he was intoxicated, or reckless as to whether the woman had consented, or had not taken all reasonable steps to make sure she was freely agreeing to sex. Innocent men have nothing to fear from these measures, which are unlikely to have much effect on the conviction rates. The biggest factor in the drop in convictions is probably the changing profile of rape cases. Many more date or acquaintance rapes come to trial than 20 years ago, when most were classic stranger rapes. In the former, consent is the central issue. And where it is his word against hers, accused men will continue to reap the benefit of any reasonable doubt.