I was listening to the Police Federation spokesman, Paul McKeever, on Radio 4 this morning. He was pouring tepid water over a thinktank report suggesting the cops might like to invest some time and money in training citizens on techniques to defuse the kind of antisocial behaviour that will resume on our streets when the Olympics are over."Sorry mate, it's the government's budget cuts. We can't afford the idea," said McKeever, good trade unionist that he is. "It's our job anyway." So much for the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) report published this morning on behalf of the Centre for London researcher, Ben Rogers, which is not ashamed to deploy the Fleet St cliche about "have-a-go heroes" but realises it can be dangerous. Alan Travis's Guardian report is here.But it's an intriguing idea all the same. Everyone rehearses in their mind what they might – or might not – do when confronted with ugly behaviour, vandalism, excess noise, even violence on a bus, in the pub or on the street. I certainly do. On Brighton beach only yesterday I saw some kids, clearly down from London on a rare visit to the seaside, hurling stones with cheerful abandon – unmalicious but risky. I told them to be careful, but did so kindly. They were only kids.The RSA's report – First Aid Approaches to Managing Anti-Social Behaviour – says that last August's riots showed both the strength and weakness of civil action (remember the broom brigades that cleaned up?) and that a radical new "citizen's defence" approach is needed to enable the public-spirited to evaluate a situation so that they can decide if it is appropriate, or wise, to intervene, as well as how to defend themselves if things go wrong.Police budget cuts make it more necessary not less, Rogers argues. So does the imminent arrival of elected police commissioners, who should champion lay training on what is known as the Woolwich model, which was introduced after riots there in 1878 and gradually spread across the world. In our unruly world the public is concerned about low-level disorder, but is not well-equipped to do anything useful."With the real prospect of traditional police patrols being scaled back, now is surely the time to focus seriously on agreeing the core skills that active citizens need – individually or collectively – if they're to step up to the mark. The coalition government has signalled its determination to encourage and support citizens to "have a go" and intervene to stop criminal behaviour. But to do this, citizens need training and the government needs a strategy if these emerging ideas are to be supported and developed, says Rogers.Specifically he suggests:• Police officers or lay trainers should provide training to local people about how to deal low-level antisocial behaviour• Training should also be given to frontline public servants, including park keepers, public transport workers, street cleaners, parking enforcement officers, caretakers, teachers and other school staff, social workers, community and youth workers and neighbourhood managers• People such as shopkeepers, publicans and postal workers, who are not in public service but are present and potentially influential within their communities. could also benefit from training• Training should include a) self-protection and restraint – what physical steps to take to minimise the risk to oneself b) how to read a situation - to appraise when it's appropriate to walk on by, when it's safe to intervene or when to call the police, and c) conflict resolution and mediation skills – how to defuse an argument, forge an agreement and where appropriate elicit an apology.This strikes me as sensible stuff. When we were small – in the innocent 1950s – the kind of people mentioned above, from teachers to park keepers and bus conductors, were figures of authority whom you generally obeyed. Your parents took their side in a clash, not yours. Now it common for us all to challenge authority more readily, with the predictable result that there is less experienced and confident authority to go round – at a time when it is much needed.Fortunately, there are always some people who will stand up for themselves and their community. It is humbling to read of an elderly lady chasing away burglars with a broom, or of a woman – it's often a woman - who eventually brings her estate's hooligan gang under control despite the best efforts of police and assorted folk in authority to ignore the problem. I could say more. So could you.To his credit Tony Blair tried to tackle low-level disorder via the Asbo system, now officially frowned on as ineffectual. The coalition promises to replace it with something better. We'll see if it does – or even tries. It's frightening and depressing when people, not all of them elderly, say they are afraid to go out at night or even at other times, afraid to open the door. It's also infectious.So I was pleased to learn that Rogers (who has another report out highlighting the weakness of David Cameron's Big Society devolution) attributes some of his ideas to a small charity I'd not heard of until today. Founded in 2007 by Jane Atkinson, a former housing manager, it's called Dfuse and it trains people to handle conflict, aggression and anti-social malarky.Not in Syria, but the stuff we see on our streets. By chance I mentioned this in the presence of my wife's morning walking partner, Sue, who is a very busy person. As such she had found time to do one of Dfuse's courses, along with her Citizens Advice work, her hobbies, voluntary activities, gardening and cardiovascular exercise. She says the course was terrific.No surprise that – if I have got this bit right – the crucial insight is that an intervention should be non-threatening, calm, even cheerful. That's roughly what I'd figured out in my head, that I'd first have to strangle the adrenalin surge which is never far from the surface and put on a smile. Fortunately I've not been involved in fisticuffs since my misunderstanding with Alastair Campbell more than 20 years ago.Even longer ago, when the family lived in the respectable suburbs of Washington, we went to a neighbourhood watch meeting where everyone was all fired up against street crime and burglary. "If we get an intruder should we blow him away?" I recall an old fellow asking the cop, whose budget allowed him to come and give advice."No. He's more likely to blow you away instead," came the sensible answer. It's still good advice, albeit unheroic by have-a-go standards. Intervention can make a difference and we should never be afraid of children. But most antisocial behaviour is perpetrated by adults – from feral gangs to restaurant-wrecking posh boys (no names) – and some of them are seriously psychotic.Best to know what you may be taking on. And, as with those Olympic medals, that needs training.