New prison population projections, published by the Ministry of Justice but quality-assured by the UK Statistics Authority, estimate that by June 2015 between 83,400 and 95,800 people will be in prison in England and Wales.If nothing else, these figures show just how imprecise a science predicting the prison population is. If their lowest estimate is correct, the prison population will be no higher in seven years than it is now. If their highest prediction proves to be accurate, more that 12,000 additional prison places will need to be found. This explains, to some extent, how difficult it is for any government to accurately predict how many prison places will be needed, and to build capacity accordingly.Despite their lack of precision, however, the prison projections do demonstrate a significant shift from the position only a year ago. The last set of predictions, published in August 2007, estimated that by 2014 the prison population would be between 88,800 and 101,900, significantly higher than this year's estimate of between 83,600 and 94,200 for the same year. The medium prediction for 2014 (95,600) was 6,600 places higher last year than in this year's projections (89,000). This lower predicted prison population is largely the result of measures introduced in the recent Criminal Justice and Immigration Act, including a reduction in the use of indeterminate sentences for public protection, which have been a major driver of the recent growth of the prison population, and a number of changes to bail and parole procedures. More controversially, the projections also assume the continuation of the end of custody licence scheme, which sees prisoners released early to ease overcrowding.This shift gives the government and the opposition parties an opportunity to rethink their policies on penal expansion. The government's plans to substantially increase capacity in the prison estate, driven by the recommendations of Lord Carter's review of prison policy, were based on the figures published last year. To continue at the same rate of expansion, given the significant difference in this year's projections, would be wilfully ignoring the evidence.Most urgently, this should therefore be all the excuse the Ministry of Justice needs to abandon their controversial proposals for Titan prisons. Widely opposed by everybody from prison staff to penal reformers, and unaffordable at a time when public spending will have to be cut, plans for these mega-prisons must surely be dropped by the government if their penal policy is to regain any credibility. Like the government, the Conservatives have also proposed building more prison places. In fact they have promised 5,000 more places than the government, taking the total prison capacity to more than 100,000. In light of these latest projections, maintaining these proposals would seem like a hollow attempt to "out-tough" the government while wasting public money on unnecessary penal expansion.Both parties must also use the headroom that this slowing growth will provide, if these projections are correct, to address prison overcrowding. At present, the prison estate is running at 113% of what the Prison Service defines as "the good, decent standard of accommodation that it aspires to provide all prisoners", the level above which prisons become officially overcrowded. Prison overcrowding is damaging to every aspect of the work of the prison system, disrupting education and drug and alcohol treatment, moving prisoners away from home and reducing the prospects for prisoners of securing a job or housing on release. All of these are likely to lead to higher rates of reoffending. Recognising this, the Conservatives have pledged (pdf) to end prison overcrowding by 2016, but they have done so by promising to build more places, resolutely ignoring the fact that no jurisdiction has ever built its way out of prison overcrowding. Instead they, and the government, need to recognise that while overcrowding is a key issue that needs to be tackled, prison building is not the way to do so.While the highest prediction would still see a growth of 15% in the next seven years, this year's prison population projections are the first sign that the relentless rise in the prison population in recent years may be beginning to slow. Instead of carrying on with building prisons regardless, the government should seize this opportunity to use some of the money previously earmarked for prison building to invest in measures – such as drug treatment and support for people with mental health problems – that will reduce crime and see the growth of the prison population reversed.