An armed robber was yesterday given 13 life sentences for raids on building societies and banks.Michael Wheatley, 42, was nicknamed the Skull Cracker because he pistol whipped his victims. He had been out of prison for three weeks when he made what was the first of 13 raids in 10 months. His favourite tactic was to wait until he saw a lone, often elderly woman enter the branch. He would grab her, hold a gun to her head, and demand money from the cashiers. Police were so concerned at this that they took the step of naming Wheatley as a suspect and warned that he could kill someone if he were not caught. Wheatley, however, was nonchalant regarding his crimes. When arrested by the flying squad he told a custody officer who asked him his occupation that he was an "armed robber". Sentencing him, Judge Michael Mettyear told Wheatley he was a "dangerous and prolific robber". He said: "The offences were planned with care. You searched for premises which were comparatively easy targets. You terrified staff and customers alike. Your victims were terrified and left shocked and dazed. I am sure they will never forget their experience. The Old Bailey was told that Wheatley had been serving 27 years for previous robberies until his release in June last year. He had planned to go to Ireland with a woman he met while in prison, and began making raids to fund the trip. The pair left England but he returned when the relationship soured, and resumed his criminal career. Lisa Wilding, prosecuting, said that Wheatley planned his robberies with "considerable care". He chose "easy targets" - usually small branches - in areas he knew well. He struck across the south of England, from Southampton to Royston in Hertfordshire, netting himself £45,000. As he did so the violence he used increased. In one raid he held a gun to the head of a 71-year-old, before firing a shot inside the building (although, unknown to those present, his gun fired blanks). In March this year he used his weapon to pistol whip a 73-year-old woman and the manager of a building society branch. Security cameras recorded him screaming orders and grabbing bundles of bank notes. A £25,000 reward was put on his head. In April this year Detective Chief Inspector Peter Fitzpatrick, who was leading the hunt for Wheatley, said: "We need to stop him before he kills someone." He was arrested shortly afterwards following a tip-off. Ms Wilding told the court that Wheatley was nonchalant about his crimes. She said: "He is a career criminal. On arrest, when asked his occupation by the custody officer, he replied: 'armed robber.' He speaks as if each [robbery] was no more than a trip to the corner shop." After sentencing, two of Wheatley's victims spoke out. One, a mother of three, had been terrified when Wheatley held a gun to her head inside a bank as she was going to pay in money. She said: "It is hard to get over. He had a crash helmet on, and each time I see a crash helmet now it is horrifying - it just brings it back." The second victim said: "He yanked me round the neck. He was so very violent. He really was extremely frightening." Wheatley, of Limehouse in east London, admitted 13 charges of robbery and 13 of possessing an imitation firearm - a blank-firing semi-automatic pistol - between June last year and April this year. He was given a five year sentence on each of the firearm offences, to run concurrently, with the life sentences on each of the robbery charges. He will not be eligible for consideration for parole until he has served nearly eight years.