The way the story begins is achingly familiar now, and at first, yesterday, it seemed the only difference would be the setting - the Old Bailey, with the defendants watching from the glass-sided dock."At about 6.15pm on Sunday August 4 last year", Richard Latham QC for the prosecution gently told the jury, "two girls, Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, left Holly's house and walked out on to the streets of the small Cambridgeshire town of Soham ..." But more than a year after the lurching twists of the girls' disappearance and one of the largest manhunts in British history, the jurors had a new shock coming - though Mr Latham waited until towards the end of the day to drop it almost casually into his opening argument. The defence had informed him, he said, that Ian Huntley, the 29-year-old former school caretaker accused of the murders, was now likely to concede that he met the girls, let them into his home, was the only person present at their deaths, and dumped their bodies. Conceding much, but not the murders, to which he is pleading not guilty. He has pleaded guilty to a single charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. "We understand from those representing Huntley", Mr Latham said, "that it is unlikely to be disputed by Huntley that the girls went into his home shortly after 6.30pm that evening, that Huntley was the only other person there at the time and that they died within a short time of going inside his home." Until that point, it had been a day of details in court number one - a minute-by-minute account of the girls' movements from 6.15pm until 6.46pm, when the court heard they vanished from CCTV footage, mobile phone location records and from the accounts of eyewitnesses. Mr Huntley looked on, separated by a police officer from his former girlfriend Maxine Carr, who is accused of conspiracy to pervert the course of justice and assisting an offender. As Mr Latham outlined his case, the profound normality of the days and hours before 6.39pm seemed to gain its own momentum: the box of Celebration chocolates Holly gave Ms Carr when she left her job as a teaching assistant at the girls' school; the necklace Jessica brought Holly from Menorca; and a thoroughly British barbecue, with Kevin Wells cooking outside in the rain, taking shelter in the garage, then watching Sunday afternoon television while his wife did the dishes. August 4, in the prosecution's account, seemed like just another soporific Sunday. And yet, once the girls began their journey to their local sports centre to buy a snack, Soham seemed alive with watchfulness. Jerky CCTV footage in weirdly saturated colour showed two tiny figures in Manchester United shirts crossing a car park, the vehicles as bright as boiled sweets. It was a quiet town on a quiet evening, and yet at almost every stage of their walk, the court heard, they were seen. The locations of the eyewitness accounts formed a nearly unbroken line on a map of Soham shown on the court's television monitors. "Look," one motorist said to his wife. "Two little Beckhams." Vodafone's electronic webs were watching too, the jury was told. When Jessica's mobile was switched off, it sent a signal, not to the transceiver that covered most of Soham, but to a more distant one that only functioned in a handful of spots. Mr Latham produced a map to display what he said was one of those spots - right outside Mr Huntley and Ms Carr's home. But then came 6.46pm, and after that nothing until after 10.30pm when, according to the prosecution, Mr Huntley began to make a sequence of appearances on the fringes of the search for Holly and Jessica. First he denied having seen them, Mr Latham said, then he revised his story and said he did recall speaking to them. A police officer was said to have remembered that Mr Huntley smelt of aftershave and looked freshly showered. By then, it was the small hours of Monday morning. The prosecution gave no details of how it will argue the murders were committed. But when Mr Latham did briefly mention the moment of the girls' deaths, Kevin Wells looked upwards and rubbed his forehead. It was one of the few traces of reaction it was possible to discern on the faces of the girls' parents, who attended yesterday with the Chapman's daughters, Rebecca, 18, and 15-year-old Alison. We think we know these people - that we've been with them on the stomach-churning journey from press conference to press conference. But we haven't really. In recent days, their demeanour in court has been described as brave and strong and noble, but in truth, their faces were walls, and yesterday you could have read into their expressions whatever you wanted. They could have been strong inside, or destroyed, or just numb, as they spent the day in court watching a journey of a few minutes around the streets of their hometown broken down by the minute and microscopically analysed. "You will be walking it," Mr Latham told the jurors, announcing that they would be visiting Soham themselves next Monday to follow in Holly and Jessica's footsteps. "Not a long walk."