The family of heroin addict Rachel Whitear yesterday vowed to continue to fight to find out how she died after an official report concluded that police botched the initial investigation into her death. Whitear's family appealed for new witnesses to come forward even though it is eight years since she was found dead in her bedsit clutching a syringe. They said they were considering taking legal action against the police and the coroner who handled her death. The case became notorious after Whitear's mother, Pauline Holcroft, allowed an image of her daughter's body to be used in an anti-drugs film. But Mrs Holcroft has always insisted Devon and Cornwall police were too quick to dismiss the 21-year-old's death as an accident and believes that someone else might have been with her daughter when she died, then "staged" the scene to cover up their involvement. Mrs Holcroft and her husband, Mick, also believe that a postmortem was not carried out either to save money or because the pathologist was not sure of Whitear's "HIV status". After a five-year investigation the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC) yesterday said Devon and Cornwall police were guilty of a "general organisational failure".The investigation, carried out by Chief Superintendent Paul Howlett, of Wiltshire police, concluded that three factors might have prompted detectives to look more closely at Whitear's death. Firstly, her landlord told police that a tin of tobacco went missing from his house in Exmouth, Devon, at the time of her death, suggesting that someone else might have been there. Secondly, Whitear's boyfriend, Luke Fitzgerald, changed his account of when he last saw her, and, thirdly, the Holcrofts expressed suspicion over her death. Howlett says: "A more detailed forensic examination of Rachel's room might have revealed evidence to support the hypothesis that she was not alone at the time of her death."Howlett also flags up concerns about how the scene was managed. Howlett's report says the decision not to hold a postmortem was made after a discussion between a hospital pathologist and the coroner, Richard van Oppen. Initially, the pathologist said he did not undertake a postmortem because Whitear's "HIV status" was not known.Mrs Holcroft said police had not treated Whitear's death "with the respect and care it deserved". She appealed for anyone who had new information to come forward. An inquest in 2000 recorded an open verdict with no cause of death established. A jury in a second inquest held last year returned a verdict of death by opiate intoxication but was unable to decide if she was alone at the time of her death. Devon and Cornwall police expressed sorrow over the Holcrofts' "anguish" but stopped short of accepting its investigation was flawed.Inquiry findings路 A more detailed forensic examination of Whitear's room could have established if someone else was with her when she died路 Further investigation of Whitear's boyfriend, Luke Fitzgerald, could have eliminated him from suspicion or implicated him as being involved路 The IPCC said it had not been possible to confirm that officers had managed the scene properly 路 Had a postmortem been carried out at the time it is "probable" a cause of death could have been established