Affluent young men getting involved in late night fights and targeting of mobile phones by robbers are among key factors driving the 16% rise in violent crime in the last year revealed by the statistics published today by the Home Office.The police figures show a further modest rise in the headline crime rate to 3.8% in the 12 months to March but also reveal one of the sharpest ever increases in violent crime - particularly robbery, which jumped 26%. The home secretary, Jack Straw, last night insisted that the figures, which also showed continuing falls in domestic burglary (down 6%) and car crime (down 4%), proved the government was "bucking the long-term trend of rising crime" by tackling the issue. Despite Mr Straw's denial that the prime minister was panicking over the crime figures, a further significant boost to police recruitment will be announced today and a package of measures to tackle alcohol-related crime is to be unveiled next month. Mr Straw yesterday blamed youngsters with more money in their pockets spending more than ever on drink, and then getting involved in violence and disorder when they left clubs and pubs, for fuelling the rise in violence. "Some 40% of violent crimes are committed when the offender is under the influence of alcohol, as are 78% of assaults and 88% of criminal damage incidents," said the home secretary. Comparative tables published for the first time, grouping local authority areas into "families" weighted by 20 social factors such as unemployment, show clear discrepancies between the crime figures of similar areas. They show, for example, that Hull has the highest burglary rate in Britain and Caerphilly in Gwent the highest violent crime rate. But they confirm that it is inner London boroughs, such as Lambeth and Hackney, and some of the big cities, such as Manchester, which have the worst crime problems. They also reveal a clear north-south divide, with the largest increases taking place in London, the home counties and East Anglia. A new package of measures for tackling alcohol-related crime is to be unveiled. Proposals include a "proof of age" ID scheme, state licensing of pub and club "doorkeepers", barring "habitual drunks" from pubs, and forging tighter relationships between hospitals' accident departments and the police. Ministers' hopes of tackling the rise in robberies, which is fuelled by mobile phone thefts, are even more long term, with attempts being made to persuade mobile phone companies to adopt a more expensive new "chip" which would incapacitate stolen phones and even indicate their location. Home Office statisticians said that 86% of the robberies were street attacks with the rest being on businesses. Two-thirds of all robberies happened in London, Manchester and Birmingham. The sharp rise in violent crime was preceded by an unexpected fall last year, and Home Office officials said part of the reason may be the "bedding in" of new counting rules - but there was a clear upward trend. The vast majority of the 581,000 offences recorded for violence against the person, which now includes everything from murder through harassment down to non-injury common assaults, was for less serious crimes. But the total for "life threatening" offences rose by 12% to 30,400. The upward increases in sex crimes (up 4%), racially aggravated offences - of which 22,000 were recorded - and domestic violence (not separately counted) are officially explained as reflecting a growing intolerance of such offences and a greater willingness to report them to the police. Drug offences fell by 10% to 122,000 offences, mainly possession. But it is the burglary and car crime figures which ministers will take the most comfort from. Burglaries fell for the seventh year running to 906,000 offences, and thefts of and from vehicles also fell for the seventh year running, by 3% on the previous year. But the continuing fall in detection rates, down from 29% to 25% will continue to cause anxiety. Officials said the fall was partly the result of tightening up the rules, so that offences cleared up during prison visits and those where no further action is taken were not counted as detections.