Street rats, says Ainsley, 17. "That's what they're called." "They sit on the street and drink," explains Lauren, 16. "They're everywhere," adds Carly, 17. The teenagers from Bexleyheath describe the disrespectful youths of today as they glide along the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent. Street rats wear hooded tops and baseball caps. They are mainly boys, but girls tag along. They aren't into serious crime. It's graffiti, or stealing garden gnomes, although Carly thinks they beat people up. When they see hoods up, the girls say they cross the road and hold on to their phones.Happy slapping, binge drinking, hoodie-wearing feral yobs have been swearing and spitting their way across the country this week. Tube drivers said yesterday they would strike over intimidating behaviour by gangs of youths on the District line. John Prescott recalled 10 "fellas with hoods" trying to beat him up and film it at a motorway service station.Tony Blair said people were "rightly fed up with street corner and shopping centre thugs" and promised to make the restoration of respect a priority for his government. Both endorsed the approach taken by Bluewater, which has banned hoods and caps.There is a moral panic over hooded teenagers. What's wrong with the kids? Are they worse than ever? "Yes," chorus the girls shopping at Bluewater. "My 14-year-old sister acts so much more grown up than I did when I was that age," says Carly. "It's unbelievable how old she acts - she wants to go to the pub." "When we were 14 we went to the cinema," says Lauren. "Now they all sit on the streets drinking and smoking." But none of the teachers, pensioners, mothers, employers and teenagers out shopping at Bluewater want to admit they are part of a society rearing a generation of hooded hoodlums.Both government and shopping centre initiatives sprang from fearful focus groups. Voters told the prime minister of teens' loss of respect. Shoppers told Bluewater they hated the young hooded gangs listlessly congregating in the brightly lit mall. Its ban was shrewd PR, helping the 330 chain stores identify shoplifters on CCTV and sending a message to shoppers: leave your hoodie-infested local shops and come to Bluewater. (Gamestation, the computer games retailer, opportunistically announced yesterday that it would welcome hooded top-wearing teens into its stores.)Now Kent's cavernous shopping centre seems to be where the hooded street rats come with their mums or girlfriends for a spot of down-time after skulking at the bus stop all day. From middle-aged women to teenage boys, all are wearing their hoods responsibly - down, not up. They come in their thousands to buy more hoodies: on sale in the windows of dozens of other shops yesterday.Most of the teenage "guests" hanging out at Bluewater say their schools - in Gillingham, Rochester, Sidcup and Bexley - have banned hooded tops. Newsagents, pubs and clubs in these ordinary towns and suburbs have also outlawed hats and hoods so they don't obscure troublemakers' faces on CCTV.Cameras are everywhere. It is not just hooded happy slappers who flourish their phones to film attacks. "I used to wear my hood up all the time when it was in fashion about a year ago," says Craig Wilkshire, 20, with his Nike cap on and Reebok hoodie down. "I was walking down the road once and a bus driver stuck his phone out of the window and took a photo and said, 'Now I've got you.' That's what it's like in Woolwich. Everyone wears hoods. It's really bad."His girlfriend, Julie Hogben, 23, is angry about the stereotyping. "The other side is people think you are causing trouble so you might as well go and cause trouble. It's labelling the youngsters. It's society pushing them to do it - 'We've been given a bad name, we might as well carry it through.'"Violence, cameras, hoodie bans, more cameras. People seem bewildered by this spiral of fear and control. "You can't wear hooded and caps in our school," says John Halford, 34, a teacher at a secondary school in the Medway. "I don't agree with the ban but the argument was crime could be committed in the school and they could remain anonymous on the CCTV cameras. The subtext is they are trying to stop all youths wearing things they consider offensive. It's a scare tactic. Hoodies signify they are rough, tough kids but what you wear is not necessarily a signifier of who you are."They gave a whole assembly talking about former New York mayor Rudy Giuliani and that's seeped into many schools - sort out the small things and you sort out the big things. But if you quash freedom of expression that much you are going to make kids do other things."The government is talking tough but critics fear it lacks a coordinated approach to tackling the problem. David Miliband's appointment as minister of communities in Mr Prescott's office has created grounds for a turf war between it and the Home Office. There are also rumours the much-hyped antisocial behaviour unit is to be closed."I'm not sure it is always a good idea to see youth as a problem. We want young people feeling wanted in society," says Joanna Shapland, professor of criminal justice at Sheffield University. "Hooded tops are a problem if you are relying on cameras and policing at a distance rather than face-to-face personal security."According to Richard Garside, the director of the Crime and Society Foundation thinktank, the government's drive for respect has simply amplified perceptions of antisocial youths. West Midlands police has complained the force is being inundated with calls about innocuous antisocial behaviour."First it was squeegie merchants, then it was antisocial behaviour and now it's respect," says Mr Garside. "By creating this category of loutishness or kids hanging around the government can acknowledge anxieties without admitting there may be a problem with crime." It is unhelpful, he adds, to place what young people wear on a continuum of antisocial behaviour that includes vandalism, noise pollution and crack dens."It is a collection of discrete problems," he argues, which require specific solutions. Draughty village halls and games of pingpong overseen by the vicar may not cure youth ennui anymore but providing teenagers with greater mobility would stop hanging on street corners. "There are generalised solutions too, like poverty reduction, but they are not the ones the government is talking about."While more than 65% of people consider youth crime is rising and experts agree there can be a connection between antisocial behaviour and serious youth crime, statistically, youth offending is falling. The number of 10-to-17-year-olds convicted or cautioned fell from 143,600 to 105,700 between 1992 and 2002, a drop of almost 26%. Government research has found the most mentioned antisocial behaviour is speeding - an adult problem."We are not complacent but anyone familiar with social history knows that teenagers have been complained about in every era," says Rod Morgan, chairman of the Youth Justice Board. "We mustn't attempt extreme responses. Would we be wise to exacerbate the problem by making certain forms of dress or behaviour even more attractive by damning them? We have to be careful we don't demonise them. Having said that, if young people are engaged in serious antisocial behaviour, destroying the quality of life in neighbourhoods, it needs to be dealt with."Mr Morgan insists that projects such as voluntary work with parents of young children seen as at risk and providing local facilities for teens must be pursued. "It will not be a solution if our response is to lock up many more children. All we will do is create adult career criminals."There is fear, but not terror, in Kent. "We don't see too much of it [antisocial behaviour] but there isn't the respect now that there used to be," says a pensioner, Wendy Wadeson, from leafy Pratt's Bottom, near Bromley. "Kids used to stand up for you when you were on the bus or open doors." Her husband Colin says: "In the evening when you're out and there's a group of youngsters in a dark area it can be threatening. It's an impression. It doesn't mean that they are causing trouble. Historically there's always been this kind of thing. The teddy boys and the mods and rockers created fear."Were they mods or rockers in their youth? "Mods, I suppose. We had scooters. We did more sporty things with them - we'd drive to Italy," says Mr Wadeson. Did he go to Brighton, where the mods and rockers famously clashed? "Oh, there were those days too. People were drawn into it. It's easily done."From quiffs to gold chains ...  1950s The concept of the teenager was born, and with it the first signs of panic. Gangs of east London youths dressed up in drainpipe trousers, long coats and slicked back hair. Their Edward VII-style apparel gave them their name: teddy boys1960s: Mods and rockersMods and rockers hove into view. Mods took R&B and soul to their (purple) hearts and sped to all-night clubs on Lambrettas or Vespas. Rockers had beefier motorbikes and a distaste for the comparatively effete mods. Street battles at Margate and Brighton triggered press hysteria and a countrywide fear of little scooters and big bikes1970s: SkinheadsAs parents fretted about hippies corrupting their daughters, mods morphed into skinheads before punk took the mainstream by surprise. Fears of degeneracy were confirmed by the Sex Pistols' expletive-ridden debut on teatime TV. Academia got hip to the youth beat; Stanley Cohen analysed the phenomena of "folk devils and moral panics". 1980s: Acid house Under the Thatcherite radar, youngsters turned to acid house with its repetitive beats and a new drug, ecstasy. Dance fans adopted hooded tops from hip-hop and created their own free parties. More shocked tabloid headlines. The scene was killed by commercialism, bad drugs and the Criminal Justice Act 1990sCountless mini-youth cultures, quickly adopted by the market economy, spawned countless mini-panics. Dad-rocking Britpop didn't set off many alarms but violent videogames did. So too did knives and guns and black youth cultures. By the early years of the 21st century, the Welsh band Goldie Lookin' Chain put their tongues in their cheeks to remind everyone that "guns don't kill people, rappers do"