On April 24, the day after the 20th anniversary of his death, the Blair Peach Anniversary Committee will organise a demonstration in London. It will be a unity demonstration, say the organisers, designed to bring together the many anti-racist campaigns gaining impetus from the outcome of the Lawrence inquiry. Mr Peach, a school teacher from New Zealand, was killed at a demonstration against the National Front in Southall in 1979. Despite eyewitness reports that he had been hit over the head by a policeman, no public inquiry took place and no one was charged with his murder. An inquest recorded a verdict of death by misadventure. Last month the committee wrote to Jack Straw, requesting a meeting to discuss an inquiry.  They have yet to receive a detailed reply, but last week held a conference about anti-racism in education. They are particularly interested in the Macpherson inquiry findings which relate to schools. 'It feels as though it is coming around again, to see schools as having an important part to play in anti-racism work,' said a spokeman.  Mr Peach was white. His murder became a symbol of establishment incompetence and police brutality. The resonances of his death are all too familiar - the authorities had failed to defend people of whatever colour from racist violence. Claire Dissington of the Anti-Nazi League, which organised the demonstration at which Mr Peach was killed, says: 'His death . . . exposed how black people were treated by the police, and opened up how both black and white people were affected by racism . . . It united people who saw that the National Front was a threat to our democracy.' In January 1981, 13 children burned to death in an horrific house fire in Deptford, south London. The New Cross fire swiftly attracted national attention. Accusations of racism and police cover-up spread, and a march by 20,000 people across London criticised the police investigation and alleged that local skinheads had been responsible for throwing a petrol bomb into the packed house. A thirteen day inquest returned a verdict of unlawful killing. The police were unable to produce any evidence of the fire bomb which they had previously told parents they had discovered. Eighteen years later, after a police report last month finally concluded that the fire had been started internally, some of the families affected asserted that the fire had not been racially motivated, and accused anti-racist campaigners of exploiting their grief and confusion at the time.  John La Rose, chairman of the New Cross Massacre Action Committee, insists that the fire was the result of a racist attack, and that police incompetence led to loss of vital evidence. 'They have consistently avoided having a proper inquiry. The fire had a massive impact on the black community. During the Brixton riots, black youths were saying "They burnt us out, now we're burning them out". The ferocity of the response forced the government to make some changes, opening up councils to black people with section 11 placements, and a speech by Michael Heseltine at the Conservative Party conference of that year on creating a black middle class, later echoed by Scarman.'  Within four weeks of the New Cross fire, the first Brixton riot took place. The Scarman report, delivered in November 1981, concluded that the police must bear some responsibility, describing the relationship between the police and the people of Britain as a 'tale of failure'. His strongest criticism was reserved for police use of stop and search powers and their effect on community relations.  Joy Gardner, a Jamaican immigrant, had been living illegally in Britain since 1987 when five police officers broke into her north London flat at 7.40 one morning. They handcuffed her, attached leg, thigh and body belts to her, and gagged her with 13ft of sticky tape wrapped seven times round her head while her five-year-old son Graeme looked on. She collapsed and, despite attempts to revive her, died four days later as a result of brain damage.  Three members of Scotland Yard's specialist Aliens Deportation Group were prosecuted for manslaughter, but were acquitted in June 1995 after claiming that Mrs Gardner was 'very, very strong'. The case was then referred to the Police Complaints Authority, but it ruled the officers could not be disciplined after being acquitted by the courts. Earlier this month a writ was issued against the Home Secretary and Metropolitan police commissioner Paul Condon, on behalf of Mrs Gardner's son, now 11 years old.  Mick Chatwin, legal director of the Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants, believes that Mrs Gardner's name remains a powerful symbol of unfinished business. 'There was a lot of cynicism about the police getting off, and it was seen as a big cover-up because the immigration service wasn't charged, although the police were just overseeing their operation. The blame was shifted on to the police, and there was frustration that no one paid the penalty for her death, which fuelled bad feeling.'  The immigration service was seen to act like a police force while remaining unaccountable, he argues. 'The writ is very timely as the current bill before Parliament increases the powers of immigration officers without adding safeguards.' It is difficult to assess the individual impact of incidents like these, and harder to divine why one achieves a level of recognition denied to others, says Muhammad Anwar, of the Centre for Ethnic Relations at Warwick University. 'You cannot isolate one incident, just as you cannot isolate one institution, but these all contribute to an accumulated perception of how the police treat black people. Many of today's young people weren't even born when these incidents took place, but they learn from parents and community leaders. You cannot separate attitude from experience. They are just as important as each other.'