A prestigious American magazine said yesterday that Britain's youth were so out of control that adults were terrified of them, prompting fresh debate among child welfare experts. An article in Time magazine said ,"Britons are frightened of their own young", and police officers have advised mugging victims not to go out unless they have to.The magazine said some British children were "bound to be left in the cold", because they were less integrated into the adult world and spent more time with their peers than children in other cultures; there was a class structure that impeded social mobility and an education system that rewarded the advantaged.Julia Margo, associate director of the Institute for Public Policy Research, whose research was quoted in the article to support its thesis, said it had not been accurately portrayed. "It paints an unfairly negative picture about young people," she said. "My research is often used to build a picture of Britain's young people being in crisis, which they are not. They are not more likely to fall into gang violence than children in other developed countries."The Time piece cited Unicef research which said British youngsters were more likely to get drunk, and have underage sex than children in countries. But Margo said the Unicef data was contested.The Conservatives used the article to attack the government. David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "This report paints a depressing picture of Britain's broken society under this government. Labour's failure on alcohol and drugs have played a major part in increasing crime and antisocial behaviour among British youth. Gordon Brown's failed policies have also led to increased family breakdown - itself a major cause of crime." Bob Reitemeier, chief executive of the Children's Society, said the piece was balanced. He was quoted in the article and said: "What is happening in the lives of a significant minority, is they have no form of value system and no constructive relationship with adults, the search for meaning in life is hard."How are these young people going to learn right from wrong, who is helping them through their journey. Unfortunately in too many cases, there is no support there." He said claims that adults were scared of youngsters were correct. "There is a climate of fear. The adult population is increasingly afraid of youths and not letting their own children out unsupervised because they are afraid of youth against youth violence," he said.He cited research in which adults said they would allow their children out unsupervised at 14, while their parents had allowed them out at 10.In a speech yesterday Gordon Brown said he was angry that children were failing because of poverty.Speaking at the Scottish Labour party's annual conference in Aviemore, Brown said: "We believe every child is special, every child is precious, every child and young person should have the chance to develop their talents." He said he and others in Labour were "angry" when they saw children destined to fail through poverty, or youngsters unable to stay on at school because of parental circumstances.How they compareBritain Number of youths under 18 proceeded against for indictable offences down from 68,000 in 2005 to 66,000 in 2006. Highest figure in last 10 years was 84,000 in 2001. Number of under-18s convicted or cautioned over violent offences rose from 17,590 to 24,102 - an increase of 37%.Twenty-eight teenagers murdered in London in 2007 and over 50 killed by other youths in Britain overall.Number of under-18s in custody in January 2008: 2,828.Glasgow estimated to be home to more than 170 teenage gangs while Met claims similar number in London. The USA In 2001, 8% of 17-year-olds reported having belonged to a gang, while 16% carried a handgun.The 2003 survey found 6% of high school students said they had carried a weapon to school in the past 30 days. Based on the 2004 survey, youth gang membership was estimated at 760,000. 2003 arrest estimates for possessing/carrying weapons were 39,200. Juveniles were involved in an estimated 1,300 murders in 2002.