Police yesterday appealed to clubbers who spent Saturday night at an east London venue to come forward with information after a young man was shot repeatedly and killed outside the nightspot, following an evening out with friends.The man in his 20s, who is not being named until he is formally identified, became the latest in a succession of young people killed in London this year after he attended a house music event at Club Red in Limehouse.Scotland Yard said officers were called to the scene at 3.45am and the victim was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics.Detectives were still trying to establish the precise circumstances of what happened. They initially received conflicting reports about who and how many people were involved.Yesterday a large police cordon was in place in surrounding streets as forensic officers in blue boilersuits worked under a white tent outside the nightclub, which is near Limehouse DLR station.Residents said they were woken by police sirens in the early hours of the morning. Shopworker Gloria Antin, 45, said: "There was a helicopter and people shouting and screaming at about four o'clock. There were huge crowds of people here outside the nightclub." Police said the victim suffered multiple gunshot wounds in an incident outside the club and was pronounced dead at the scene. A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "We believe that the victim was at Club Red in Cable Street with friends." The shooting is being investigated by officers from Operation Trident, which focuses on gun crime among young black people. No arrests had been made yesterday. Clubbers who may have seen what happened were urged to contact police.While concerns about street violence have recently been focused on the issue of knife use in the capital, shootings continue to pose a threat. Trident has more than 300 officers working full-time on such crimes.Last week, a 17-year-old became the third teenager to be gunned down in Camden, north London, in the past few months, sparking fears of a turf war among local gangs. He was believed to have known Sharmaarke Hassan, also 17, who died in May after being shot in the head on a Camden estate.An 18-year-old from the area was seriously injured when he was shot in the stomach in nearby Archway the night before Hassan's shooting.Last week it emerged that the latest fad among gun-wielding criminals is a tiny key-fob gun that can fit easily into the palm of the hand.On Friday, Marcus Henry, 27, from Clapham, south London, was jailed for nine years at the Old Bailey for shooting a man with one of the miniature weapons outside a nightclub in December 2007.Police believe it was the first example of the potentially lethal weapons being used. Around 100 of the Bulgarian-made devices, designed to be used as flare guns, were imported into the UK a few years ago, and some have been converted to fire live 0.25-inch rounds. Police are keen to locate as many as possible, believing they may be even more dangerous than standard handguns since they can be concealed.