The man accused of kidnapping Shannon Matthews today denied pushing the schoolgirl into his car.He also repeated his denials that he played a central role in the kidnap of the nine-year-old in attempt to claim reward money.Giving evidence for the second day at Leeds crown court, Michael Donovan said that Shannon got into his car saying her mother Karen Matthews – also on trial for her kidnapping – had told her they were going to the fair.Donovan, 40, and Matthews, 33, both deny kidnap, false imprisonment and perverting the course of justice in connection with the girl's disappearance.West Yorkshire police conducted one of the biggest ever searches for the girl in April when she went missing for 24 days from her home in Dewsbury Moor. She was found inside a bed drawer at Donovan's flat, just a short distance from where she disappeared.In cross-examination, Frances Oldham QC for Karen Matthews, said: "Yesterday you told us Shannon said this: 'Hi Mike, mum said you're taking me to the fair tonight.' You know Shannon Matthews never said that, did she?"The 40-year-old from Lidgate Gardens, Batley Carr, West Yorkshire replied: "Yes, she did."Oldham continued: "What I suggest happened is you stopped and pushed her into your car." The defendant replied: "No I didn't do that."Donovan again denied any knowledge of a strap found in his loft, which is alleged was used to restrain Shannon. He said it was a "mystery" to him as he was unable to get into his loft. Referring to a list of rules found in his flat, he denied he had written them.Oldham put it to him: "You wrote these rules out yourself, not copied from another piece of paper." "No, I copied it from an A4 piece of paper," Donovan told the jury.He claims he was given the rules by Matthews.Donovan also told the jury he showed Shannon some of his daughter's clothing."I showed her some. It was up to her if she wore it or not," he told the jury. He denied that he regarded Shannon as one of his daughters.Donovan denied that his sister, Alice Meehan, and niece, Amanda Hyett, were involved in the plan to take Shannon. But he said he did not know if Craig Meehan, his nephew and Matthews' partner, was involved.Oldham said: "You, Mr Donovan, and members of your family made this plan?" Donovan said: "No."Oldham went onto ask if Donovan was the person controlling the plan. She said: "Mr Donovan, you knew exactly what you were doing, didn't you? You were the one in control, you were in control of Shannon." Donovan denied the suggestions.The jury saw a collection of CCTV footage showing Donovan in Dewsbury and in supermarkets in Batley and Dewsbury during the 24 days Shannon was missing.Donovan said Shannon sat in the back of his car in car parks while he shopped in the supermarkets.He has told the court he was threatened by Matthews to keep to the plan and was scared.Under cross-examination, Julian Goose QC, prosecuting, suggested this was not the case.He said: "If you were scared because of the threats that you had to stick to the plan, why risk taking her out in the car so she could be found and ruin the plan?"Donovan answered: "I didn't want her to be cooped up in the flat."Goose put it to him that he could have phoned the police while out shopping. "She (Karen Matthews) told me not to tell the police," he told the jury.Goose said he could have used his mobile phone to inform the police anonymously. Donovan replied: "I could have done."Goose said Donovan acted like a "normal member of the public" while he was in the supermarkets and did not behave as though he was scared.The prosecution alleges Donovan kept Shannon, who was nine at the time of the incident, drugged and imprisoned in his flat as part of the a plan he and Matthews had to claim £50,000 reward money.The case continues.