Murder squad detectives are hunting the killer of a 17-year-old boy who was stabbed to death after a clash, becoming the 19th teenage homicide victim in London this year.A senior police chief told the Guardian the latest death comes amid a big increase in homicides overall in the capital this year, up by a third compared with 2014.Police said they were called by the London ambulance service to Marquis Road in Finsbury Park, north London, at 11pm on Tuesday night, and found the boy, named locally as Gary Scott, with serious stab injuries. He was taken to a central London hospital but died of his injuries. He had travelled to an 18th birthday party in Finsbury Park on Monday night, but was not from the area, friends told the Evening Standard.It was the 15th fatal stabbing of a teenager this year in London. Rising violence in the capital is a major challenge to the police and has already caused a heated row between the Met commissioner and the home secretary.Commander Dean Haydon, head of homicide for the Metropolitan police, told the Guardian that the latest tragedy was the 107th homicide in London this calendar year, compared with 80 by this time last year, an increase of 33%. Overall in 2014 there were 93 homicides in the city.The majority of homicides are not gang-related and Haydon said there was an increase in the willingness of people to use knives, which are also more available.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Scene of the stabbing in north London. Photograph: Jessica Elgot for the GuardianHaydon said: “We are seeing more knives in circulation and a greater propensity of young people to use them.”Haydon said: “It can start with something trivial, looking at someone the wrong way, a dispute, which [escalates], and ends in a fight and a knife being used, sometimes with fatal consequences.“This is beyond a policing issue, everyone needs to come togather to stop young people carrying knives in the first place.”Haydon said 98% of homicides were being solved and denied there was a crisis. “Before there was a record low in London but we have seen an increase this year,” he said.In a statement the Met added: “Police believe they know the identity of the deceased and next of kin have been informed. A postmortem examination will be scheduled in due course.”Scott’s mother, Annette Gill, appealed to other mothers who may have information to come forward. She told BBC London News: “Please, I am a mum too. I forgive you. Just come forward. Please, my son is 17. Oh God.”How should the police respond to London's knife crime injury rise? A friend who was celebrating his birthday the night the boy died said he had no enemies. “We had a great time and he was in a good mood. We have no idea why he died – he was no gang member,” he told the Standard. “He was honest and just a good person and had no enemies.”Anna Vrahimes, whose flat is in a block overlooking the road where the stabbing took place, said she had arrived home shortly after the attack and been barred from the road by dozens of police. “There were loads of them, officers, forensics, loads of cars,” she said. “We only heard later there had been a stabbing. We have lived here for 12 years and we know all the kids round here but I don’t know if the boy was from the area.“It’s a good area, much better than a few years ago when you would see lots of fights between kids but that lot have grown up now.”Osman Ozal, a taxi driver living on the road, said police had warned him not to move his car last night as forensics checked his tyres and the road around it for evidence. “We didn’t know anyone had died. All the police would say is they were looking for criminals.”The teenager’s death comes just over a week after another 17-year-old, Vasilaki Kakko, was stabbed to death two miles away in Yoke Close, Holloway. A 20-year-old man has been arrested in Bognor Regis, West Sussex, on suspicion of murder. That investigation continues and a police spokesman said officers retain an open mind as to the motive.The Met commissioner, Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, has spoken of a rise in violence and controversially ordered an increase in the use of stop and search tactics in certain London boroughs. Met chiefs hoped it might catch offenders and act as a deterrent but the home secretary, Theresa May, has criticised this approach, saying there is no link between a rise in violence and a decline in the use of stop and search by police.The number of stops had been going down since 2011 after concerns that very few detected crime and instead damaged community relations. In an interview in September Haydon said that rising knife crime was being caused by a cocktail of a reduction in stop and search, increased sales on the dark web of weapons such as the foot-long “zombie knife”, and a burgeoning culture of youth violence. Police estimate there are fewer than 300 who carry a knife on a regular basis in London.