The killer of headteacher Philip Lawrence has been arrested for an alleged robbery, four months after he was freed from prison for the murder.Learco Chindamo was released in July, 15 years after he stabbed the father of four to death outside his London school in 1995. He was allowed to remain in Britain despite calls for him deported to Italy.Lawrence's widow, Frances, has expressed her distress after hearing of the arrest.A Scotland Yard spokesman said the alleged robbery of a man in his 20s took place on Saturday 13 November in Chalk Farm. He added: "We can confirm that a 30-year-old man was arrested this morning on suspicion of robbery. The man was arrested at 5.55am at an address in Catford, SE6 and is currently being held in custody at a central London police station."Chindamo was 15 when he stabbed Lawrence as the teacher defended a pupil outside St George's Roman Catholic comprehensive school. He was convicted of the murder in October 1996 and jailed indefinitely, with a minimum tariff of 12 years.He was known to have moved to a secure probation hostel in London in July after a decision to release him on parole.Sources said he was freed from Hollesley Bay open prison in Suffolk after his probation arrangements were completed.When he was released, Chindamo said he had reformed and wanted to live a "quiet and decent" life.The Daily Telegraph said he was expected to be recalled to prison for the potential breach of his licence.Frances Lawrence told the newspaper that it felt as though the British legal system had given Chindamo "every help" while she and her family had been "hung out to dry".She said: "My first thought was 'My God'. I feel shocked. I find it odd that he is arrested so soon after the 'atonement'. What does it say about the justice system and the notion of what is justice? True justice surely cannot pick and choose who it supports. In this case it appears Mr Chindamo is being given every help, while my family is being hung out to dry."She said she had not been informed about where Chindamo was living after he was freed and added: "The last few months have been the worst time for me since Philip died."Chindamo was alleged to have robbed a man of his wallet and mobile phone, the Telegraph reported.The arrest will raise questions about the monitoring of offenders released back into the community and reopen the debate about deporting foreign criminals.Chindamo came to the UK when he was six, and has an Italian passport. His father is Italian and his mother is from the Philippines. Three years ago he won an appeal against being deported to Italy after his lawyers argued it would breach his human rights.They successfully argued that deportation to Italy would have been illegal as Chindamo was from an EU country and had already lived in the UK for 10 years by 1995.It was the second time the government had tried to remove Chindamo. An attempt in 2001 was blocked because it began too soon after he had been sentenced.A ministry of justice spokesman said: "All offenders subject to probation supervision on release from prison have to adhere to a set of strict conditions."They are subject to recall to custody if they breach their conditions or their behaviour indicates that it is no longer safe for them or for the public if they remain in the community."Once an offender has been recalled by the probation service it is then for the police to return them to custody. For indeterminate sentence offenders, it falls to the Parole Board to determine when they should be re-released."