'Did you kill your babies?' A whisper came from the crumpled figure in the dock: 'No.' The whisper grew louder: 'No, no.' It was as if we were witnessing torture in Reading Crown Court. It is hard to imagine a crueller inquisition than that which faced Trupti Patel: a mother loses three babies in cot death and then goes through the hell of being accused of murdering them.On the day the Reading jury threw out the case - signalling their contempt by deliberating for just 90 minutes - the Crown Prosecution Service told reporters it had a duty to prosecute and, later, that its star witness, Professor Sir Roy Meadow, is still considered to be an expert in his field.The Patel prosecution, and that of seven other British women tortured like Mrs Patel - Angela Cannings, Donna Anthony, Margaret Smith, Julie Ferris, Maxine Robinson, and two I cannot name - rested on an edifice constructed by one man, Meadow, whose law is: 'Unless proven otherwise, one cot death is a tragedy and two is suspicious and three is murder.' This is barbarity, and it's a grave charge to make against a professor, a knight and the first president of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health, but it needs to be set out if we are to end the agony Sir Roy has put far too many innocent mothers through.Some mothers do murder their babies. Meadow has said of these women: 'Sometimes, it makes me physically sick when I get involved with a case, I'm just not eating. I vomit.' Meadow believes up to 20 per cent of cot deaths are, in fact, murders. (Fellow hawk, Professor Michael Green, believes that figure is up to 40 per cent.) The biggest study of cot death found that murder was the most likely explanation in just 2 per cent. But there is no doubting Meadow is the best prosecution witness. It's his air of resigned detachment when he deems the cot deaths are 'not natural' that does for mothers. 'Sudden, unexpected death does not run in families,' Meadow told the Trupti Patel jury. In other words, sudden, unexpected deaths - cot deaths - are not caused by any genetic factors. This is just plain wrong. When a baby is born, it is protected by the mother's immune system. As the baby grows, Mum's immune system fades away and the baby's switches in. But if the gene is faulty, then the immune system doesn't kick in - and the baby is prey to any infection going. Dr David Drucker and his team at Manchester University have been looking for the fault in the gene. In 2001, they found one - or part of it: if a mother has a particular form of the IL-10 gene, then the child is several times more likely to suffer a cot death. Drucker's faulty gene and what Meadow told the Patel jury don't square. One has to be wrong. Drucker told BBC 5Live Report in 2001 that Meadow's Law is 'scientifically illiterate'. Intellectually, you can test the theory of genetic inheritance right now. Do certain looks, features, run in your family? If you inherit your looks, is it possible that you could also inherit genetic defects? Of course it is. What Meadow says - no genetic explanation for cot death - confounds common sense. So what is his backing? He told the Sally Clark jury - the most infamous case where he put a cot death mother on the rack - that he had written a paper on 81 cases of murder originally found to be cot deaths. The Sally Clark defence wanted to look at his 81 cases. They got a strange reply from the CPS: 'It now seems that most of the raw material on which Sir Roy's paper was based has been destroyed.' Meadows explained: 'I retired from my academic and clinical post in Leeds last September, at which time all confidential research material which might allow identification of individuals was shredded.' We are not talking about one miscarriage of justice averted in the case of Mrs Patel. What has happened is a whole category of miscarriages. His theory reverses the simple test of justice - that someone is innocent until proven guilty - and is based on nothing anyone else can check. It's a witch-hunt that has gone around the world. Catherine Folbigg has just been jailed in Australia for killing her four babies. One baby had epilepsy, one a heart condition, one an airway problem ... but her husband disowned her. The fact of two or three dead babies is proof enough: 'She must have done it.' The newspapers used to be relied upon to stick the boot in. Don't forget the Daily Mail 's headline after Sally Clark was convicted: 'Driven by drink and despair, the solicitor who killed her babies.' But what happens if she didn't? If there's no evidence of abuse, no marks, no history of violence to the baby or, in fact, any other person - like Angela Cannings, condemned by Meadow as a child murderer and currently rotting her life away in prison while her surviving child grows up without her mother? After Angela's third baby died in 1999, her husband, Terry, told me: 'Matthew was pronounced dead and the doctor - a good friend that's dealt with all my children - quietly whispered in my ear. He just said: "Terry this is the third. Expect crap now." '[The police] arrived at the door and detective sergeant Rob Finley just sort of knelt on his knee, held Angela's hand and he said "I'm sorry but I've got to arrest you on the suspicion of three deaths: Gemma, Jason and Matthew." And Angela ... it was like she was shot ... shot in the kneecaps.' Sally Clark's second baby to die, Harry, was killed because of an overwhelming staphylococcal aureus infection. Doctors found Staph A on two of Angela Cannings' dead babies but samples for the third baby have been lost. Michael Patton, professor of genetics at St George's Hospital, Tooting, identified nine cot deaths or near cot deaths in Angela's family tree - and still the jury convicted. Was the Cannings jury influenced by Meadow's killer stat, that the chances of two babies dying naturally for a posh mum like her were 73 million to one? For the benefit of the CPS who say they will continue to use Meadow, let us unpick '73 million to one'. Meadow took the risk of one baby dying in a middle-class, non-smoking home and multiplied - 8,500 to one - and multiplied it by itself to get to 73 million to one. You can't do that unless the two risks aren't linked. Same mother, risks are linked, the stat's a joke. ' Just plain wrong,' said Peter Donnelly, professor of Statistical Science at Oxford University; 'Atrocious,' said Brian Lowry, professor of Genetics at Calgary University. Meadow has done it before. Donna Anthony was a working class smoker when her two babies died. He told Donna Anthony's jury that the chances of her babies dying naturally were one million to one. There were no marks on the babies. She's still in prison, serving life. Donna's lawyer, George Hawkes, said: 'She was convicted of murder on the basis of a statistic and that is frightening.' Jean Golding - professor of Epidemiology at Bristol University - is one of a tiny number of academics who have the courage to condemn Meadow outright. For BBC R4's File on Four, nine months before the Patel case, she told me that Meadow's method was 'like stamp-collecting'. Should he give evidence in criminal trials? 'I'd rather he didn't.' But he did and, had the Reading jury not been so magnificent, Mrs Patel could be in jail. The CPS has no duty to bring cases on the evidence of Professor Sir Roy Meadow. He is a rogue witness. It is a form of child abuse for the state to jail a child's mother for no good reason, as happened to Sally Clark and is happening right now to Angela Cannings' daughter. And that child abuse makes other people - not just Meadow - vomit too.