An explosion which killed a man and flattened three terrace houses was probably caused by a gas leak, police said yesterday. It had previously been thought that a purple liquid poured through the letterbox of a teenager's home might have led to the blast. Charlotte Anderson, 17, whose home in a quiet street in Harrow, north-west London, was at the centre of the blast last week, was badly burned in the accident. Hours before, a group of girls had poured a foul-smelling liquid into her house.Her neighbour, Emmad Qureshi, 26, was found dead in the rubble. His friend, also a 26-year-old man, was taken to hospital with serious injuries.The focus of the inquiry is now expected to turn to the cause of the gas leak, which does not appear to have previously been detected. There have been reports of other gas blasts in the area in recent years.The National Grid did not respond to requests for comment last night. But last week, hours after the explosion, it said: "We found no trace of a gas leak in our system, but we will continue to have a very small presence on site." In a statement, police said yesterday that the substance poured through Anderson's letterbox "was not a cause of, nor a contributory factor to, the explosion".Detective Chief Inspector Colin Sutton, leading the investigation, said a gas meter and piping had been recovered from the scene yesterday and had been sent for scientific examination. "None of the information gathered in the past few days supports the theory of explosives or similar devices, nor a deliberate act to cause an explosion," he said."Although there was no gas appliance in use at No 21, there was a supply - and a meter - which had been unused for some years. Preliminary indications are that a large volume of gas may have passed through the meter. It is this which has now become the focus of our investigation." The Health and Safety Executive is assisting with the inquiry.Sutton had previously given some credence to a theory that a group of girls caused the explosion in a targeted attack on Anderson. He had said: "They are obviously people she knows, who were there to do her some harm. Whoever did this, if it is what we think it is, it was targeted."Anderson's mother added to speculation on Wednesday when she said her daughter had been targeted by a group of girls over a love rival.Scotland Yard is no longer understood to be treating the incident as a murder inquiry.