Francisco Arce Montes, the man accused of murdering the British teenager Caroline Dickinson, broke down in tears during his trial today after testimony from his mother was read out in court.There followed a brief adjournment of the trial of the 54-year-old Spanish waiter, who is accused of sexually attacking and suffocating the 13-year-old in a youth hostel in France in 1996. Prosecutors had pressed Mr Montes to talk about a statement from Benigna Montes Moro, taken after his arrest in 2001, in which she talked about his childhood. After a 25-minute break proceedings resumed and Mr Montes apologised for his outburst. He said: "Excuse me for those tears because in this room I'm not the victim." His defence lawyer, Olivier Dersoir, said it had been an unexpected "psychological reaction". The jurors earlier heard the text of an interview Mr Montes gave to police after his arrest. In it he told the story of his life, referring to the death of his father in December 1997. Speaking of his childhood, he said: "I don't consider I had a happy childhood. My friends made fun of me and beat me. I don't remember why." Caroline was killed at a hostel in Pleine-Fougères, in Brittany, on the night of July 17-18 1996 while on a school trip organised by Launceston community college in Cornwall.Yesterday the court heard how schoolgirls sleeping in the same room as Caroline had been woken on the night she died by groans and banging noises. Today jurors heard Mr Montes had claimed unemployment benefit while working in the UK between 1993 and 1997. He said he had worked in a hotel in London but could not speak English. The statement read: "I got sciatica but the English government gave me money. I left London in 1997 having taken money out of my bank because I was getting unemployment benefit even though I was working. They wanted to look into my account but I refused." Later today the former girlfriend of Mr Montes was due to testify. Christine Le Menes, who is also the mother of Mr Montes' only child, met the former waiter in a youth hostel in Holland in 1981. They lived together for a period in a flat in Vitre, 35 miles south-east of Pleine-Fougères.Ms Le Menes has requested that her evidence be heard behind closed doors without Mr Montes in the court. The judge at the trial, which is in its fourth day in Rennes, is expected to accept her request. Mr Montes has admitted sexually assaulting Caroline but denies murdering her. He has said he was in Brittany hoping to see his son, now aged 17, when the attack took place. The trial continues.