They call the CPS the criminal protection service. Convicting a criminal, say those whose job it is, is less reliant on the brilliance of officers than the doggedness of 16 people in a prefab building at the side of the police station. They are known as the criminal justice unit. They are the Olympic athletes of paperwork.Between arrest, trial and conviction is the assault course of MG 1-20: defendant details, previous convictions, charge sheets, summaries of evidence, disclosure of unused material, bail conditions, witness statements, interview transcripts and exhibit schedules. MG 2, a meta-form against which all other forms are checked, was discontinued recently in deference to the case workers' sanity. "It used to be done on a single sheet," says Michael Bone, an exhausted-looking senior officer at the CJU of Kentish Town police station in London. "Name of offender, offence, when we nicked him. Now you've got a page for everything. There's no automation in the system, so you have to put all the details in separately for each form; 99% of coppers can't type. You can do 14 pages for an assault allegation. If a car gets broken into and 10 things get nicked, every item requires a single page and a different code. We've got the data protection registrar threatening us with a writ because we're so behind with our database updating. But it's a choice of which gets priority, the live cases or the dead ones?" CJU workers collate the papers, witnesses and exhibits necessary for trial. They never make it on to the TV cop shows. In unhappier moments, they call themselves "the forgotten". Paula and Shirley sit at the top end. Paula wanted to be a cop but her eyesight wasn't good enough so she joined the CJU as a case worker. "We've got a couple of murders, a rape and a theft," she says. "You can have 10 cases on the go at once. You're supposed to treat every victim the same, so your theft victim is as important as your rape victim. But I will put a theft on the back burner for a rape. In a way, we're like judge and jury. We decide what comes first." "I'll differentiate," says Shirley. "If there's a theft from a person and a fraud at a bank, I'll prioritise the one that has the human victim." The scare-word in the CJU is "discontinuation." If the forms aren't in on time the crown prosecution service can discontinue the case. "Clerks can make or break a case," says Michael. "This isn't a job for stupid people any more. You look away for a second and the goalposts have changed. It's not fought on evidence but on police procedure. Paperwork is all about continuity. You have to prove that the drugs presented in court are the same ones you took off the prisoner at the scene. That means the code has to be the same on each form. If you're tired and make a typing error, then your case can go. If you ain't got continuity, you're knackered." Today, Paula is dealing with the news that one of her key witnesses in a theft case will be in Germany on the trial date. Two trial dates have been missed already. She has an assault case for imminent committal hearing and is still waiting for an MG 6E (disclosure form) from the arresting officer. Officers generally meet requests for paperwork from the CJU with groans and swift evasive action. "The CJU is classed as low priority," says Paula. "But without us, there'd be no convictions." In the typing section, Betty Williams is puffing through the annual staff assessments. She has worked for the police force for 20 years. She oversaw the transition from typewriters to computers. It didn't make things quicker, she says, because the computers were five years out of date and always breaking down. They still have green screens and there is no internet access. This is a shame, because the court service website puts up court dates hours before they arrive by post. Performance-related pay is slowly killing Betty. She must judge her seven staff (two are away on long-term sick leave) on a scale of one to five, five being the worst. A grade two requires three pieces of supporting evidence; a grade one requires five. "The form is impossible to fill in," sighs Betty. "There are separate boxes for managing people and managing relationships. But they're the same! And how are you supposed to grade typists between one and five anyway? I mean, they type. Typing is typing. You really struggle to find things to say. Everyone in this office works their socks off." The prefab wasn't designed for permanent habitation. When it rains, nobody can hear themselves think. There is cause for cheer today, however. The sun is out and David Blunkett, the home secretary, has pledged 30,000 more officers on the beat. A CJU officer snorts and asks me to withhold his name. "That's no good unless he backs it up with more staff behind the scenes; 30,000 more on the beat with no more case clerks? No fucking point. It's the same shit, different day. Sorry to be crude." He was on the beat for 10 years. "Sooner or later they'll grind you down," he says. "It's the abuse, the rudeness. You hear one too many comments about your sexual practices or your parentage. You cease to see the public as human beings. You see them as lumps of meat." In a dim little cubbyhole across the car park is 54-year-old Dave Pearse. After 30 years in the building trade, he joined the Metropolitan police as a property officer. His cubbyhole holds 19,000 pieces of impounded property. "Ideally," he says, "you want to get rid of it quicker than you bring it in." This isn't easy. With mandatory DNA testing, evidence that would once have been returned or thrown out is held for months. "We put clothing on the top shelf so if it falls it won't kill anyone," says Dave. "I've got stuff going back to 1998. I keep all the interview tapes. Eventually they get ground up for fertiliser - don't ask me how. They brought a door in once, for fingerprinting. Seemed an odd way to go about it. We've got samurai swords, a lot of drugs and cash. I used to read everyone's records, the lab reports, everything. It was fascinating. Disturbing. The things people do to each other - how do they even come up with some of these things? Animals. It can be a sad job. You get the pocket contents of someone who has committed suicide." Dave wears a regulation blue pinstripe shirt with the Metropolitan police insignia above the left breast pocket. He says he is proud of his job. When he travels home on the tube, however, he puts an envelope in the pocket. That way, he says, no one can see who he works for.