On a crisp Sunday morning in April last year, Margaret Marsden woke at dawn in the terraced house she has lived in for 50 years, just outside Sheffield. A passionate gardener, she looked forward to wandering around her flowerbeds and enjoying how spring had clothed her shrubs, bulbs and flowers in colour and lush foliage. She planned to plant out some of the flowers she had procured from several specialist nurseries, which she had left on the patio to acclimatise. But as she stepped outside, instead of spring blossom, she saw empty pots strewn over the patio and lawn. During the night thieves had climbed over the fence and cleared her garden and greenhouse of every potted plant that she owned, leaving behind a trail of soil and discarded labels. "The more I looked, the more I got upset," the 74-year-old pensioner says. "They took all my special plants, many of which are irreplaceable because I have collected them over the years from all the flower shows I visited. You can't just buy these plants in any garden centre. They took my favourite flower, a beautiful and rare miniature orchid with a blossom that resembled that of a pink foxglove."What particularly saddens her is that she believes many of her plants will have died in the hands of the robbers. "Because they left all the labels behind, they would have not known which species they took. I have many rare plants which need special soils or nurturing. My Japanese maples, for example, need acid soil." Marsden's case is just one incident in the flourishing business of garden crime. According to the insurer RIAS, claims from garden thefts have doubled in the past year, and now that the gardening season has started in earnest, there will be a dramatic rise in garden crime (according to Halifax Home Insurance, cases increased by 52% during the summer months last year). As many as one in seven households will be affected: Churchill Home Insurance claims that the British lose nearly £300m per year in garden thefts. This green-fingered crime is a symptom of the garden revolution that is sweeping Britain - we spend £4bn on flowers, plants, garden tools and garden accessories every year, and despite the credit crunch, retailers do not believe this area of spending will decline, as people will take fewer holidays and spend more time at home in their gardens. According to the Horticultural Trade Association, garden retailers are reporting that sales in the first months of this year are significantly up from last year. The business of garden raids is a lucrative one because Britain's backyards have changed in the past decade. The humble suburban plot with plain lawns and a few bedding plants has been overtaken by sophisticated designs involving elegant furniture, exotic specimen plants and mature trees, all of which are much more valuable than their predecessors. According to Halifax Home Insurance, the value of the average garden theft claim has risen by more than a quarter over the past five years (from £305 to £387), with Sheffield as the hotspot, with an average claim of £524.The changing British climate has also had an impact on how much we are spending on our gardens, and therefore how much money there is to be made from garden theft. Mature olive trees, for example, have become popular because they are evergreen, low maintenance, architectural and redolent of the Mediterranean - but they can cost several hundred pounds. We are also lavishing money on exotic plants such as Japanese maples, tree ferns or Australian grass trees - thanks in part to the milder climate and also their prevalence in TV makeover shows. The Chelsea Flower Show this year promises the return of topiary, so doubtless there will be a scramble for sharply trimmed box balls and conifer pyramids. And as gardeners part with £250 for a 5ft yew spiral or £400 for a holly standard, garden thieves will be rubbing their hands with glee. The trend for special and mature specimens also means that there is a trade in plants stolen to order. Debbie Willis, of the Waoku Nurseries in Gloucestershire, believes that the trees that disappeared last month from her garden centre were commissioned. "Our burglary was not random," she insists. "I'm sure a garden designer ordered them and sold them on to his or her clients." The nursery specialises in exotic species and the thieves went only for specific plants in different locations within the nursery, using trolleys to move their spoils. "Two 7ft topiary spiral conifers, six 4ft fan palms and two standard olive trees in wonderful metal planters disappeared." It is not only that our gardens have become more valuable, but also that they are more easily uprooted - thanks to the trend for instant gardens. Rolls of turf, decking, fully grown trees and shrubs can create the impression of a mature garden within a day. But as quickly as it is created, it can also be stripped bare. Across the country whole lawns have been rolled up and vanished, as have fountains, ponds (including the fish) and large palm trees. Garden ornaments were the most reported stolen items from gardens in the Thames Valley region last year, as they are valuable and easily transportable.Carole Pearce and her partner spent four years building their house in Portishead, near Bristol, and when they finally turned their attention to the garden, they decided to splash out on an expensive 7ft palm tree as the finishing touch. Their delight was short-lived. A few weeks later, they woke up to the sight of a gaping hole next to their driveway. "I'm sure someone came for this particular tree," says Pearce, "because nothing else was stolen." She has decided not to replace the palm. "It would probably only be pinched again," she says.Often it is not just the monetary value of the stolen plant or garden ornament that upsets the owner but the memories attached. Carl Greenhalgh, from Bakewell in Derbyshire, was shocked that the two trees that his father-in-law had planted with his daughter Bethany when she was five had disappeared. "For 10 years they had watched the trees growing," he says. "We were really upset." Meanwhile John Aherne, from Edinburgh, couldn't quite believe what he saw (or missed) when he looked through his window into his front garden. "We had this big ornamental stone lion which had been in our family for more than 100 years. My grandmother sat on it, my mother sat on it, I sat on it, as did my children and my grandchildren." He is convinced that it was taken to order, but he has tried to take it with good grace: "At least they were polite and closed the gate behind them."Today's garden thefts are not an entirely new phenomenon. In the second half of the 18th century, gardeners across the country encountered similar problems. To deter criminals, garden lovers petitioned for an Act for Encouraging the Cultivation, and for the better Preservation of Trees, Roots, Plants and Shrubs, which was eventually passed in 1766. Offenders could be punished with transportation. The proceedings of the Old Bailey show that several thieves were sent to the penal colonies "for plucking up, digging up, breaking, spoiling, and carrying away" flowers, shrubs and trees.Like today, the spate of garden robberies in the 18th century was an unwelcomed side effect of a garden revolution. Even then, gardeners spent fortunes on rare species; as Peter Collinson, a London cloth merchant and obsessive plant collector, said in 1767, "So great is the itch that even a poor ragged shoemaker, a weaver or a baker will give half a guinea or a whole for a new flower." This passion was and is a peculiarly British phenomenon. In Germany, by contrast, there is a very different sort of garden crime. My parents, who live just outside Hamburg, were visited (and warned) by the local policeman when a neighbour complained that their unruly hedge was not trimmed accurately, growing at least four inches too close to the pavement. So what can we do to protect our precious camellias, tree ferns, magnolias, patio heaters and the contents of our garden sheds?It says something about the state of the gardening craze in Britain that a retired police officer from York has co-founded a company with the sole aim of combating garden crime. Mark Gains thinks that people completely underestimate the value of their gardens. "You wouldn't leave your £2,000 Rolex watch in your garden or shed," he points out. "Go around your garden, look at what you have and add it up - and start thinking about security as you would do for your house." Experts advise protecting tender orchids and lawnmowers from crooks by padlocking greenhouses and sheds. Margaret Marsden had an external light fitted and her fence raised (parts of which got stolen a few months ago). "It's like a fortress now," she says. Other safety measures might be gravel paths (so that thieves will be heard) and anchoring and chaining expensive potted trees and plants. Insurers are advising homeowners to check their policies to see if they will cover the replacement of shrubs, trees and hedges, as well as the often quite valuable contents of the garden shed. The police are also providing advice. West Mercia Constabulary has just published a leaflet called Tips to Nip Garden Crime (downloadable from their website) and Leicestershire police initiated a general awareness campaign called Garden Guard. The Metropolitan police prove to be horticulturally sophisticated by listing on their website 17 different species of plants - identified by their correct botanical names - that are suitable to create "a barrier of prickly hedge" to stop green-fingered intruders.If that doesn't help, perhaps Big Brother technology will do the job. Mick Gains says his company, Gardien Ltd, is "currently looking to implement a variation on the latest anti-terrorism technology in an effort to reduce garden crime". If that doesn't reveal something about the British obsession with gardens, I don't know what does.Jane Perrone on the plants that thieves are most likely to steal - and those they avoidMost wantedTopiary in pots Clipped hedging is the hot theme of the Chelsea Flower Show this year, so the discerning garden thief will make a beeline for box plant topiary in pots and the standard bay trees or hollies you've proudly displayed in pots on either side of the front door (which set you back at least £50 each).Japanese maples These striking little trees never seem to go out of fashion and their dwarf forms are often grown in pots on the patio for their colourful foliage, making them attractive for thieves. Go for a bigger tree - Acer palmatum Sango-kaku, for instance, which can reach 6m tall - and plant it in the garden to reduce the risk.Phormiums The structural straplike leaves of New Zealand flax has made it the darling of many a garden designer - but they are pricey specimen plants costing from £20 for a smallish plant, so they're likely to be a target. Consider surrounding it with spiky plants such as berberis or pyracantha to put off intruders.New Zealand tree fern Another New Zealand native that's now a fixture in every trendy urban backyard is Dicksonia antarctica. Despite their size they are eminently portable - just grab the trunk and run, or preferably load into a waiting van - and at £100 for a smallish Dicksonia, any loss could be very expensive. If you're not so worried about keeping up with gardening trends, grow Yucca gloriosa or Yucca filamentosa instead - almost as dramatic but the sharp leaf ends will put off the thieves.Black bamboo Phyllostachys nigra is the only bamboo with black stems and is popular as a screening plant in containers in minimalist gardens. At around £40 for a single plant of a decent size, it would make a nice catch for someone with an eye for plants, particularly if it's planted in a trendy aluminium trough.Alliums The cool blue or violet globe-shaped blooms of the ornamental branch of the allium family are never off gardening programmes these days: Allium cristophii is a personal favourite. Their bulbs or rhizomes make them easy to rip out of the ground without killing the plant. Each plant will set you back around a fiver and you'll need a fair few - say a dozen - to make a really decent display, so the cost of replacement mounts up fast.Too naff to nick Pampas grass Despite huge interest in grasses generally, pampas grass still languishes in the depths of naffness, a symbol of gardening 70s style. It also grows to monstrous proportions - 5ft or more - so any thief with a hankering for the retro look will have a job heaving it over your garden fence.Chrysanthemums Yet to be withdrawn from the list of plants that shouldn't be seen outside a clip of Gardeners' World circa 1975, chrysanths are in fact lovely flowers if you can get past their image problem. And they could follow dahlias as the next plant to be rehabilitated by edgy garden designers. Try drifts of a single shade for a dramatic autumn display. They should not be a target - specimen plants are far more likely to be stolen - but if they do get taken they won't cost a fortune to replace.African marigolds These bedding annuals also ache of the 70s and unless you happen to be a whizz at the retro look they'll date your garden quicker than a row of garden gnomes. Not likely to be nicked either, unless they're being stolen to order and sold on to unknowing seaside towns to plant up their ornamental borders.Busy lizzies The flower of gaudy pub hanging baskets across the land, and cheap as chips from the garden centre, only the most desperate of criminals will consider taking your busy lizzies. Grow them in a partly shaded border and their candy-cane blooms will glow all summer, even if you don't win any garden design prizes.Magnolias Not tricky plants to grow but their shortlived flowers are often wiped out by late frosts. Unless you're burgled just as the blooms emerge, these shrubs are unlikely to catch the eye of any thieves. They're very popular plants, so a small one won't set you back more than £15 at a garden centre.Gunnera manicata Now, this spectacular plant isn't uncool - it looks like a rhubarb on steroids, which has made it popular with gardeners who want to make a big statement - but it is virtually impossible to steal. Why? Well, you try digging up a 10ft tall, 10ft wide plant with prickly stems and leaves the size of golf umbrellas. It's cheap to buy at under a tenner for a small plant that will soon grow to resemble the plant from Little Shop of Horrors if you put it in boggy soil. · Andrea Wulf's book, The Brother Gardeners: Botany, Empire and the Birth of an Obsession, is published by William Heinemann.