A woman who killed her husband in a car crash after pulling on the handbrake at nearly 60mph during a drunken row has been jailed for two years.Caroline Meeking, 45, and her husband Alan, 49, were on their way home to Somerset after a day's heavy drinking in Bridport, Dorset, when they crashed into another vehicle.Meeking, of Ilminster, Somerset, denied manslaughter but was convicted at Bristol crown court.Passing sentence, Judge Neil Ford QC, the Recorder of Bristol, said: "In my judgment, this case is so serious I must pass an immediate custodial sentence. A suspended sentence or community order would not reflect the seriousness of the offending."The judge told Meeking: "I accept that you are genuinely remorseful for your actions. You have accepted responsibility for the accident, if not criminal responsibility."I accept that you didn't intend to cause an accident, that you didn't intend any harm to anyone and that your action was sudden and impulsive.But your action was also wholly dangerous and by any assessment grossly irresponsible."You have caused the greatest loss to the family of Mr Meeking. You have caused immense loss to yourself and to your own family."Meeking showed little emotion as she was led away to begin her sentence.The jury had heard that Meeking pulled on the handbrake and caused the rear wheels of the silver Ford Escort to lock after her husband called her a "slut" and said he was leaving her. The car span across the road and smashed into an oncoming vehicle, killing Mr Meeking instantly.Passing motorists found Meeking weeping over her husband's body, screaming, "I'm so sorry, Alan. Don't leave me."Ian Dixie, prosecuting, told the jury Meeking did not intend to kill her husband, who died of multiple injuries, but knew her actions were dangerous. "Witnesses who arrived at the scene described Mrs Meeking as being obviously extremely concerned about her husband and upset about what had occurred," he said."One witness recalled her as saying, 'I am sorry, I am sorry. It is all my fault. That is my husband. It is all my fault – we were having an argument. He said he don't want me any more, and I just pulled the handbrake.'"The crash happened at 10.22pm on 30 August 2010 as the Meekings drove home along an unlit A-road. They had been on a day trip to Bridport, where they drank two bottles of rosé wine at a 2pm lunch and then headed to a nearby pub at 4pm.The pair spent a few hours drinking pints with a couple they had just met before driving home.Mr Meeking was found to be twice over the drink-drive limit. Dixie told the jury that in police interviews Caroline Meeking confessed she did not believe she was in danger or that her husband was going to hurt her.Dixie said: "It is perfectly obvious that if you do something like jamming on the handbrake of the car when it is going along that it is likely to be dangerous."