The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday 10 July 2010The London bombings in 2005, which took 56 lives and caused hundreds of injuries, were, as an editorial said, the worst act of terrorism "on UK soil" if that phrase is taken literally. On a wider definition, including UK skies, the worst act would be the bombing of Pan-Am flight 103 after its departure from Heathrow, with the loss of 270 lives over Scotland in 1988 It was some months before the bombs went off that the Belmarsh case required the law lords to consider whether life of the nation was threatened, which the majority of them accepted that it was. The pall cast by 9/11 went far and wide, sending British spines into a shiver well before a single jihadi terrorist had committed murder on these shores. Then, on 7/7, they came – indiscriminate, murderous and seemingly more apocalyptic than political. Tony Blair, who had by then long been marching in lock-step with George Bush's "war on terror", lost no time in demanding draconian new laws on the basis that "the rules of the game have changed".Five years on, Blairite plans to close mosques and force the courts to churn out control orders are forgotten,even if Robert Lambert's description to today's Guardian of a "flawed neconservative" security agenda retains some validity. The departure of a crusading imperialist from the White House helped to cool things down, as did the courageous decision of the then opposition to see off Labour plans to jail terrorism suspects for 90 days and then – once that pitch failed – for 42 days before they were charged. Above all, however, reality intruded. The political edict that barred any admission of the linkage between foreign policy and the terrorism threat collapsed under the weight of intelligence connecting the two. The drip-drip of evidence suggesting that British agents had connived in torture after 9/11 built into a stream that could not be ignored, and only yesterday the prime minister announced an inquiry of a sort. And while the west undermined its own moral claims to rewrite the rules of civilisation, its citizens learned to put the threat into a more proper perspective. The London outrage of 2005 was the worst single act of terrorism on UK soil, but it did not mark the start of a sustained campaign like that of the IRA. And it hardly needs saying any longer that the life of the nation is not being tested as it was by the nightly massacres of the Blitz.It would, however, be hasty to assume that we have collectively learned to manage the threat rationally, and still hastier to imagine the danger has faded away. Even as the muscular arm of the security state wages an unwinnable war in Afghanistan, its eyes discern new sources of danger – in Yemen, Somalia and Pakistan – and its ears pick up on and prevent devastating plots, some of which would cost scores of lives. That intelligence work is vitally important – a matter of life and death. But that does not excuse scare-mogering by those who undertake it, of the sort that Scotland Yard's antiterrorism chief, John Yates, indulged in last week when he issued dire hints about what expenditure cuts might mean for safety on the streets. Together with the unique repugnance that inevitably attaches to mass murder, interests within the security nexus ensure that terrorism still terrifies like nothing else. Thus, the practice of setting aside the right to a day in court for suspects on control orders has, for now, survived the change of government, but ministers seem in no hurry to aid the 300 souls each year who could be saved by reducing the drink-driving limit, even though that toll is several times that of a repeat of 7/7.A coalition of Liberal Democrats and self-proclaimed liberal Conservatives is bound together by the rhetoric of freedom, but the tests will come with the review of terrorism laws and the rigour with which the torture inquiry proceeds. For now the verdict is not proven, though one or two straws blow in the wind – the ditching of a Birmingham scheme to put Muslim districts under wholesale CCTV surveillance is a heartening sign that the security state may be in retreat. In a moving speech immediately after 7/7, London's then mayor, Ken Livingstone, warned the terrorists that, if their aim was to divide citizens and force them to junk their liberties, "you will fail". Five years later, and against the odds, that prediction now sounds shrewd as well as courageous.