An Algerian asylum seeker was stoned and sexually assaulted as she walked along a cycle path in Glasgow with her one-year-old baby. Police are hunting for a group of four males and have asked that three of them come forward and identify the attacker.The man, described as white and aged between 20 and 25, kicked the woman and pulled off her headscarf before exposing himself and sexually assaulting the victim, who has not been identified. He then tried to sexually assault the child.The woman, who is 33 years old, managed to break free from her attacker and fled with her baby, leaving her headscarf, pram and baby bottle behind on the path. Police are examining CCTV footage for evidence.The attack took place on April 3 but the woman was so traumatised she did not contact police until Wednesday. She described her attacker as very tall and thin with very short hair and wearing white and blue tracksuit trousers.The officer in charge, Detective Inspector Andy McWilliam, said: "This was a particularly harrowing ordeal for the woman and her son. It may be the other members of the group are as disgusted with the sexual element of this attack on a defenceless woman and her one-year-old baby. They may be in a position to assist the police in identifying the individual responsible. I am also keen to locate the whereabouts of the pram, headscarf and bottle."The assault took place in Yoker, a socially deprived part of Glasgow which is now home to a large community of asylum seekers. It has been praised for the way it has tried to integrate those seeking refuge there and has been at the heart of the campaign to stop asylum seekers being deported. Groups of local residents have met at dawn to prevent the arrival of vans with teams intent on removing asylum seekers. The victim lives in the area.Robina Qureshi, director of Positive Action for Housing, a charity which works with ethnic minorities, said: "This was a very sick thing done by some very twisted individuals. The fact that he ripped off her headscarf made this not just an attack on her but an attack on her faith. The police have described it as a racially motivated attack and they rarely do that. The area that it happened in is quite a cohesive area."