The burglar shot by farmer Tony Martin was yesterday released from jail after serving less than a third of his 18-month sentence for heroin dealing.Friends and supporters of Martin expressed anger that Brendan Fearon was freed on a new government initiative whereas the farmer has been denied parole. While Fearon was enjoying his liberty Martin is being held at a secret location, having been unexpectedly transferred from prison on Thursday, prior to his official release on Monday. The juxtaposition of the men's release is an embarrassing coincidence for the Home Office, which is under pressure to look again at the law governing the rights of householders to defend their property against intruders. Fearon, 33, was one of two intruders who broke into Martin's remote Norfolk farmhouse, Bleak House, in August 1999. The farmer opened fire on the pair with a shotgun. Fred Barras, 16, was killed while Fearon suffered serious leg injuries. While Martin, 58, awaited trial for murder Fearon was jailed for three years for conspiracy to burgle. The court was told he was the brains behind the raid. He was released after serving half his sentence. Earlier this year Fearon, who is suing Martin for damages, was imprisoned again after being caught drug dealing near a police station. He served five and a half months before being released from Ranby prison in Nottinghamshire 104 days early under the government's home detention curfew scheme, which is designed to clear jails of offenders who are not considered dangerous or violent. Under the scheme offenders have to wear an electronic tag and stay indoors from 7pm until 7am. The HDC programme was extended earlier this month so that inmates can leave jail up to 135 days before their first possible parole date, the halfway point of their jail term. It is available to inmates serving between 18 months and four years except those convicted of sex offences, child cruelty and racially-aggravated offences. Martin, who was jailed for five years for manslaughter, has been refused parole because of the fear that he might re-offend if his home was broken into again. He has not accepted that he did wrong by opening fire on the burglars. Monday is the last day he can be held. Two days ago he was moved from Highpoint prison in Suffolk to a secret location in preparation for his final release, an unusual move designed to spare him having to run the gauntlet of the media on his release. Martin's friend Malcolm Starr expressed anger at Fearon's early release. He said: "It is outrageous that a career criminal like Fearon is out on the streets after serving just a few weeks of his prison sentence. "It is a real kick in the teeth to think that he has been freed three days before Mr Martin is being released. Someone in the Home Office obviously has it in for Tony Martin." Peter Sainsbury, who has also been campaigning for Martin's release, said: "Fearon is a professional criminal who knows the angles of the judicial system. What the hell is going on?" A prison service spokeswoman said: "It is a complete coincidence that these two prisoners have left prison within a day of each other." Police have set up a mobile station outside Martin's home in the village of Emneth Hungate to deal with the press expected to descend on the farm when he is released.