In the good old days, I am led to believe, whole families would pack up a picnic, their pets, their children and grandparents, and every one of them would go to the cinema together as one big happy family. Those days are long gone. How often do you catch sight of a trailer that you could expect a teenager to take their grandparent to see? Hardly ever, that's how often. And then happy Harry Brown came along.All right, possibly not the very first choice for a full family day out. It's not happy Harry Brown, it's just Harry. And 'e's not 'appy. In fact, he's well peeved.At first in this trailer, we see him talking to a friend, Leonard, bemoaning the condition of the estate they live on and the thugs on it. His friend stands up to the thugs …  Harry Brown Photograph: Public Domain… And ends up with a firebomb through the doorway and a volley of projectiles thrown at him on his balcony. Then, some kind of kerfuffle in the darkness and the next thing we know …  Michael Caine in Harry Brown Photograph: Public Domain… Emily Mortimer is a sympathetic-looking police officer, informing Harry of the death of his friend at the hands of the thugs.   Michael Caine in Harry Brown Photograph: Public DomainAnd then Harry as the only mourner at a funeral, presumably the funeral of Leonard. There's a lot of other things we see, but they're mainly too dark to tell quite what they are, out of context. A dark screen that might be a hand holding a cameraphone playing some kind of violent act being perpetrated upon it. Someone walking down a road, a walkway, or possibly a bridge. Some kind of altercation that is either a fight in a small tunnel or a cluster of grumpy ducks stuck in a bucket.  Michael Caine in Harry Brown Photograph: Public DomainThings are not getting better on the estate, you feel. It is possibly not a good place for a nice older gentleman such as Sir Michael Caine's Harry. He would be better somewhere else, maybe on a steam train, in the country, offering Werther's Originals to a grandchild.But you soon realise Harry isn't going to be offering sweets to anyone any time soon.Unless they're Werther's Originals that you can shoot straight out of a gun, which would still hurt if moving at that kind of velocity. Harry has a gun. Like Dirty Harry.In more ways than one, in fact, since everyone's comparing this film (often based on this trailer alone) to Clint Eastwood's Gran Torino. And you can see why. Both feature respected ageing actors you never quite realised you didn't want to meet down a dark alley, but now definitely realise you don't.   Michael Caine in Harry Brown Photograph: Public DomainBecause if you do, there's a fair chance that they might take you into a deserted cellar, tie and hood you and threaten to tell you long, boring stories about what it was like when they were a lad. Only kidding: where they will shoot you. With illegal guns. And, Caine looks like he's going to be very, very good at it. Going to represent a powerful image of life post retirement.So: this is going to be dark, it's going to be gritty - it's possibly not a movie for the whole family; just the members of it who might enjoy watching Caine be one justice-seeking, vengence-dealing, thug-thumping badass-with-a-bus-pass. And that might be quite a lot of people.   Michael Caine in Harry Brown Photograph: Public Domain"TAKE VAT!" shouts the vengeful pensioner (or at least, we imagine him saying, over the final shot) as he pulls the trigger and lets fly a red hot stream of burning caramel that can turn anything it hits into a walking Werthers. Or rather, a completely stationary one. This, you see, will provide him with the perfect Terminator exit cue. "Yeah, you little baaarrrrrstard. 'Oooo 'sucks' now?"NB: Other boiled sugar sweets are available