A bride and groom were taken in handcuffs from a register office in Sheffield today in a high-profile raid by police and immigration staff who are targeting sham weddings.Passersby watched as the groom, a 36-year-old originally from Afghanistan and wearing a grey suit, was led from the aborted civil ceremony by a uniformed officer and a plainclothes colleague.The intended bride, dressed in a floor-length white bridal gown with intricate beading sewn to the front, was then escorted from Sheffield town hall. A 21-year-old originally from Slovakia, she was also handcuffed and looked clearly upset.The couple were led past shoppers in the busy plaza along with two guests who had been invited to the wedding, which had been about to start when the officers intervened. They were taken away in two police vans which had drawn up nearby.Detective Sergeant Alisdair Duncan of South Yorkshire police, who led the operation, said the raid continued a summer of intense activity against suspected sham weddings by the UK Border Agency: "The couple were due to get married at 10.30am and we've just disrupted that. The message is that we can disrupt these weddings. There are laws there and we're enforcing them."The would-be groom is understood to be a failed asylum-seeker.A spokesman for the UKBA said that 53 suspect weddings had been stopped since the practice was first targeted four months ago. Few attempts at discretion have been made during the arrest of 118 participants, to emphasise that police and border agency staff are prepared to exercise the traditional right of anyone to attend a wedding and object.Duncan said: "There were quite a few weddings taking place but these have really tailed off now. So it is having an impact. We've had so much publicity you wonder why people continue."Jeremy Oppenheim, UKBA regional director for the North-East, Yorkshire and the Humber, said: "We will not tolerate immigration abuse and, once again, our immigration crime teams have shown that they will crack down on those attempting sham marriages. Our aim now is to identify the organisers who would seek to profit from this kind of illegal activity and destroy their criminal business."He also called for anyone associated with weddings to be aware of possible immigration-related scams: "We are working closely with registrars to identify marriages that may not be genuine. We do not expect vicars or registrars to be experts in immigration law or spotting forged documents – that's our job. But, if they have any suspicions about whether a relationship is genuine, we would urge them to get in touch with us."