An Iranian gang who tried to sell young female virgins to wealthy Arabs charging up to £150,000 a girl, was jailed for sex trafficking and prostitution today.The gang claimed to have 12 girls in the UK, available for sex in London hotels, including one aged 14 whom they regarded as "bait". They plotted to rake in huge sums through a party where young women could accept cash to sleep with wealthy Middle Eastern businessmen.The gang – named as Mahrookh Jamali, 41, Sara Bordbar, 43, both of north London, and Fatima Hagnegat, 24, along with the latter's husband, Rasoul Gholampour, 30, both of Wigan – offered their services in a handwritten letter to Sheikh Mohammed Al Maktoum, the multibillionaire ruler of Dubai, who, police said, had had no involvement with the crimes.They were caught last August when Hagnegat dropped off the note at the Jumeirah Carlton hotel, in Knightsbridge, London, which is owned by the sheikh. The note said: "My name is Mary and I have been in contact with one of your assistant in Dubai since 06.06.09 … I have 12 girls ready from the age 14-20 years, who are living all over the UK. I have spent money on the preparation of this event such as a rented house for the girls and also all expenses needed … Please, please, Mary … Please my life is dependent on your call."Staff passed the note to Scotland Yard, which began an undercover sting operation involving a Farsi-speaking officer.Provocative photographs of the girls were exchanged in 27 emails before the meeting, with discussion of potential sex acts. One conspirator said some of the virgins could be "broken" by clients, and offered to bring along two 13-year-olds for dancing.When members of the gang went to a second hotel with six scantily-clad girls aged 14 to 22, they were arrested by police. The victims came from England, Poland and Iran, and had been told they could earn money dancing for rich men.Bill McGivern, prosecuting, said the girls were told that if they had sex with a guest they would get more money.Judge Alan Greenwood told Harrow crown court that the gang was motivated by greed, running a "money-making operation based on the exploitation and corruption of vulnerable young women".All four pleaded guilty to conspiring to traffic six women aged 17 to 22 last year for sexual exploitation. Jamali, Hagnegat and Bordbar also admitted conspiracy to incite prostitution for gain.The gang ringleader, Jamali, was jailed for two years and nine months. Hagnegat was jailed for two years and six months, and Bordbar, the only member with British citizenship, was jailed for two years and three months. Gholampour was jailed for two years and nine months. A charge of conspiracy to arrange prostitution of children lies on the files of all four.