Counter-terrorism police are investigating a fire that destroyed an Islamic community centre in north London after confirming that graffiti linked to a far-right group had been daubed on the outside of the building.Amid fears of reprisals following the murder of Drummer Lee Rigby in Woolwich, south-east London, specialist officers from the Metropolitan police's counter-terrorism command took charge of the investigation into the suspected arson attack at the centre in Muswell Hill.Police said graffiti reading "EDL" – believed to stand for the English Defence League – was found on the outside of the building, while neighbours reported hearing an explosion in the early hours of Wednesday morning.A large area covering several streets and a neighbouring primary school was cordoned off as officers conducted a fingertip search in surrounding streets. The building was so badly damaged that it was still too dangerous for officers to carry out a full search inside.Scotland Yard said: "The cause of the fire is currently under investigation and is being treated as suspicious at this stage. Graffiti reading EDL has been found on the building. Police are investigating any potential connection between the graffiti and the fire." There have been no arrests.Speaking at the scene Mohamed Elmi, chairman of Somali Diaspora UK, said the fire had caused "fear and shock" among London's Somali community, adding that his organisation had received over 100 calls in the space of a couple of hours."50% of the people who have been in touch today … say they are scared – scared to leave their homes or women scared to wear their hijabs in the street … People are really shaken up by this." He said that if the aim of those behind the fire was to divide people they would fail, adding: "We have to be calm and strong and not let these people win."Police said the decision was made to hand the investigation over to Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command because of a possible link to domestic extremism. The counter-terrorism command has the "capability and expertise" to establish if the graffiti is a true indicator of the motivation behind the arson attack, or a false lead. Until now the EDL has been seen as primarily a public order issue for police. The investigation into the Muswell Hill arson attack will examine if there is a link between the EDL and an act of domestic extremism."If the EDL are involved, the counter-terrorism command will establish if it is linked to them and what that means," said a source.Kevin Carroll of the EDL said: "The EDL do not approve of any religious buildings being attacked."The fire in a residential area of north London started shortly after 3am. Local residents raised the alarm and three fire engines and 35 firefighters took an hour to control the blaze. Two neighbouring properties were evacuated.The fire brigade said the entire building was damaged, and there had been a partial structural collapse. A woman from a neighbouring property was treated for shock by ambulance crews but police said there were no other injuries.Firefighters became suspicious about the cause of the blaze and told police of their concerns.The building houses the al-Rahma Islamic centre and the Bravanese centre used by members of north London's Somali community.Ahmed Sheiba, 22, has been a regular for the past decade and had arrived for a meeting on Wednesday morning to find it all but destroyed. He said the centre was used by hundreds of children every week. "They taught all sorts of things here from Islamic studies to English and Maths. We are just sad, to be honest – what can we do?" he asked.Chief Superintendent Adrian Usher said a major police operation was underway, adding officers were following several leads: "I have spoken to community leaders and assured them that a thorough investigation is being conducted."The safety of our communities is always our priority and we are consulting widely, offering our support and reassurance. All communities can be confident that they have our support and I can be contacted personally to answer their concerns."Police said they would be stepping up patrols at all "centres of faith" in the area over the coming days and weeks although they were not aware of any specific threats. Sharon Sturgess, who lives nearby, said she had woken to the sound of fire engines: "It was a youth club when I was a girl and we all used to go there … You just don't think this sort of thing is going happen in your own area, do you?"Mohamed Ali, of the Somali charity BritSom, said he believed the incident was linked to the Woolwich attack. "The place has been absolutely destroyed. The community is shocked and very distressed because they have been here in peace for the past 20 years."We are a peaceful community so I do not know what has brought this on. The building is a centre for the community, it is used as a mosque, a gathering place for Somalis to meet up and as a school for young children to learn Arabic."This is shocking but it will not break the community as a whole. I would appeal to the people who did this to come and sit down with us and have a dialogue. That is the only way forward."According to Faith Matters, a group that monitors anti-Muslim hatred, there had been 12 attacks on mosques since Drummer Lee Rigby was killed two weeks ago. The most serious so far has been the attempted fire bombing of the Grimsby Islamic Cultural centre while people were inside.The mosque attacks are among 222 anti-Muslim incidents reported to Faith Matters' Tell Mama project in the past fortnight, well above the normal average of four to eight a day.Mayor of London Boris Johnson said he was shocked to learn of the fire. "There is no place in an open, tolerant and diverse city like London for hate, for prejudice, for violence."I would urge people to give the police the time and space to investigate this incident fully. I have no doubt the Met will bring those responsible to justice. London is a city built on the strength of its communities. Londoners will see this for what it is – cowardly, pathetic and utterly pointless."The leader of the Barnet Labour Group, Cllr Alison Moore said: "This is a long standing and well established community centre used by the Somali Bravanese community but also part of the wider local community. ….Everyone is shocked by this incident."We condemn any acts of violence or hate crime that seek to destroy our harmonious local community relations."We stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the local Somali community and all residents affected by this incident, and will be working together with them and the council to find a temporary new home for the community centre so that they can continue the excellent work they do."