Soham's church and community leaders today expressed relief that "justice had been done" at the Old Bailey, but pleaded for the media to leave the town's people alone to "move forward" from the tragedy.The vicar of Soham, the Rev Tim Alban Jones of St Andrew's Church, said the community would not forget the 10-year-old schoolgirls Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman but "had no wish to remember" Ian Huntley and Maxine Carr. He said: "The names of Holly and Jessica will long be remembered in our town of Soham as will the date of August 4 2002, but we have no wish to remember those connected with their brutal murders. Justice has been done and been seen to be done and we are glad that the legal process has concluded. "During the course of the past weeks we have heard in shocking detail the events of last August and as we come to terms with the knowledge of what happened in College Close, it is our hope that the town will now be left alone and allowed to move forward." Mr Alban Jones said the residents of Soham were greatly relieved to see the end of the trial. "Many of us have been following every twist and turn of the proceedings in court very closely and are thankful that they have now come to an end," he said. "There have, of course, been a large number of witnesses, both those called to give evidence and those who were not called. This has added to the general level of anxiety in the town during the course of the trial." The vicar said that, although the community was grateful for all the messages of support from around the country, Soham must be left alone to be allowed to return to normal. He went on: "It will not be possible, however, to return to any sort of normality as long as the high level of media activity continues and we respectfully request that all the cameras, microphones and notebooks be withdrawn, as soon as the immediate interest has subsided. "For our town to be able to look to the future we need time and space as we prepare for Christmas and for what lies beyond in the new year." Soham's Methodist minister, Alan Ashton, said: "It's what we hoped for on Huntley. But I think people will be surprised overall in Soham. There are still so many empty spaces in the story. "This has been a tragic experience for the whole of our community. It will live with us for a long time. Not necessarily at the front of everyday life, but you don't have to scratch too deeply on the outer skin of Soham without coming face to face with the rawness of emotion that lies under the surface." Jim Paice, Conservative MP for south-east Cambridgeshire, said only Huntley knew exactly what happened to the two girls. "We now have a conviction and the perpetrator will go to prison, I hope forever," he said. "We also know much more of what happened to those poor little girls although the detail is known only to that evil man. "There were people who during the summer said that it was a pity that Huntley was not successful in his attempted suicide. I understand that feeling but I took the view that without a trial there would be no 'closure' and continued speculation. I believe that my view was right." He said: "For now, at this time of year, let us pray for the girls' families and friends and for the two schools for whom the last 17 months have been so traumatic." Keith Walters, leader of Cambridgeshire county council, said the double murder should never be "allowed to happen again". "No family must endure what Holly and Jessica's families have had to endure," he said. Mr Walters said he felt Soham Village College had been let down by the system of checking potential employees. "The college and its governing body followed the appointment and checking processes to the letter - and there was absolutely no reason why they should not have appointed Ian Huntley," he said. "It is important to stress that the college could work only on the information it was given. It asked for all the necessary checks to be made - and these checks revealed nothing about Huntley's background that raised any doubts about his suitability for the job. "If the college had been provided with the correct information, Huntley would never have been appointed." Mr Walters said serious questions needed to be asked about the whole system of checking staff before they are employed. "The only way we can be confident about this is for the government to order a complete overhaul of the whole checking process as a matter of urgency," he said. "Where police intelligence exists about individuals, this must be provided to headteachers and they must be able to act on it. This might upset civil liberties groups - but surely child protection must come first." Mr Walters praised the way both schools in the village had handled the distressing events of the past 16 months. He said: "The two headteachers have shown leadership, dignity and courage in the most difficult circumstances. It is a tribute to them and their professionalism that the schools have been able to operate in as normal a way as possible."Education Authority officials said pupils at St Andrews School and Soham Village College were told of the verdict in their classrooms by teachers.