When Christopher Thompson first arrived in the UK, he told immigration officials that he was here to visit his mother and planned to stay only a month. A year later, his visa long expired, Thompson, 19, along with his cousin Fosta, 21, was a drug dealer working in the St Paul's district of Bristol. Last August the pair approached a likely looking customer and offered to sell him heroin, displaying some of the 14 wraps Fosta was carrying in his trouser pocket as proof that the offer was a genuine one. The buyer turned out to be undercover police officer John Condon. Along with his partner, Condon tried to arrest the two men who fled across a nearby car park. As Condon gave chase, one of the men turned and fired a silver pistol, missing the officer by inches. Thirty minutes later Thompson and Fosta were spotted by an armed patrol unit in the neighbouring St Werburgh's area and cornered in a blind alley. Fosta tried to shoot his way out, blasting repeatedly at the officers surrounding him. He died instantly when a single shot from a police marksman hit him in the chest. Thompson was hit in the thigh but managed to escape amid the confusion. He was arrested a week later after the police received a tip-off. Thompson was found guilty of conspiracy to supply Class A drugs and possession of a firearm with intent to endanger life last week at Bristol Crown Court. He was cleared of attempted murder after convincing the jury that it was Fosta, not himself, who had initially fired at PC Condon. The impact of Jamaican organised crime has been far greater than that of any other group in the UK. Since the first signs of Yardie activity surfaced here in the mid-Eighties, they have carried out more than 500 murders and 5,000 gun attacks. Their propensity for violence knows no bounds and their willingness to use guns has forced other gangs to adopt similar tactics or risk being squeezed out of business. Unlike most crime groups, Yardies have few qualms about shooting police officers and for this reason 24-hour armed patrols have been introduced in all major British cities. The Jamaicans have also spawned a host of imitators, most of whom have never even visited the Caribbean. The controversial introduction of a visa requirement for visiting Jamaicans later this year is unlikely to stop the bloodshed.UK community: 565,876 (Black Caribbeans) Asylum applications (since 1 Jan 2002): 1,710 Active criminals: 2,000