Ruth Ellis, the last woman to be executed in Britain, was suffering from "battered woman syndrome" when she shot her lover dead, three appeal judges were told today.Yet the jury at her 1955 Old Bailey trial were not allowed to consider her defence of provocation, said Michael Mansfield QC.The trial judge, Sir Cecil Havers, fell into "substantial error" in withdrawing that defence, as a matter of law, from the jury, which took just 15 minutes to convict Ellis of murder. The mistake made by the judge - grandfather of Philip Havers QC and his actor brother Nigel - led to a miscarriage of justice which had lasted for 48 years, Mr Mansfield told the court of appeal in London. He was appearing for Ellis's 81-year-old sister, Muriel Jakubait, who was in court for the start of a two-day appeal hearing aimed at quashing the murder conviction and substituting a verdict of manslaughter on the grounds of provocation and/or diminished responsibility. The 28-year-old nightclub hostess was hanged in 1955 for killing racing driver David Blakely as he emerged from the Magdala pub in South Hill Park, Hampstead, London. Two shots were fired at Blakely before he collapsed on the pavement. Ellis then emptied the remaining four bullets into him. At her Old Bailey trial, Ellis said under cross-examination: "It was obvious that when I shot him I intended to kill him." The case went down in legal annals and was made into a film, Dance With A Stranger, starring Miranda Richardson. It has been referred to the court of appeal by the Criminal Cases Review Commission, the legal watchdog that reports on possible miscarriages of justice. Ellis's son and daughter are no longer alive, but her grandchildren and her sister are continuing the family's fight to establish that she should never have gone to the gallows. "Were this trial to be allowed to occur today the course of the trial would be entirely different," said Mr Mansfield. He said the jury should have been allowed to consider the alternative verdict of manslaughter. Ellis's story was "a long and painful one", he said. She had been provoked by Blakely to the point where her judgment was suspended and the element of malice needed to prove murder was not present. He said she had been provoked by Blakely's behaviour in not contacting her even though he had promised to meet her, had talked of marriage and of offering her financial support. Ellis was still in love with Blakely even though he had been blamed for her miscarriage. Blakely had promised her a bright future and had told her he loved her before suddenly ignoring her, said Mr Mansfield. "She had been driven by jealousy," he said. Lord Justice Kay, Mr Justice Silber and Mr Justice Leveson were told that 10 days before the killing, Ellis had suffered a miscarriage after Blakely, the baby's father, punched her in the stomach. Lawyers also pointed to the role played by another boyfriend, who was said to have given her a gun and taught her to use it before driving her to the murder scene. The 1955 trial, held two months after the shooting, lasted just over a day. Ellis did not appeal against her murder conviction. Three weeks later, she was hanged at Holloway Prison while around 1,000 people stood silently outside. The death penalty in the UK was suspended in 1965 and permanently removed in 1970. Mr Mansfield said the trial judge, as well as prosecuting and defence counsel, were "labouring under a misconception or misunderstanding of the law". They believed that the defence, to establish provocation, had to prove the killing was not motivated by malice - that what happened was in the "passion of the moment" without any intent to kill or cause grievous bodily harm. That was wrong, Mr Mansfield argued. The correct construction of the law on provocation as it then stood was that the intent to kill arose out of a passionate loss of control and provocative conduct directly linked to that loss of control. Mr Mansfield said he would be seeking to call fresh evidence from a medical expert who, from an examination of the documents, believed Ellis was suffering from what was now characterised as "battered woman syndrome".Lord Justice Kay pointed out that, fifty years ago, the basis of the defence of provocation was "sudden and temporary loss of control". How could that apply to the Ellis case, in which there was 90 minutes between her taking up the gun and committing the offence? Mr Mansfield said that question should have been left to the jury. He said it was "remarkable" that everyone involved in the trial - six very experienced counsel and a very experienced judge - were misled into believing that, to establish provocation, the element of malice and intent had to be negated. "When a matter could lead to execution, it behoves those in a position of authority to ensure they have a grasp of the basic principles," he said. Prosecuting counsel, Christmas Humphries QC, had accepted that Ellis had been "disgracefully treated by the man who died" and that this could have left her in an intensely emotional state. Yet he asked Ellis only one question during cross-examination - did you intend to kill, to which the answer was yes - because he wrongly believed that intent to kill ruled out any defence of provocation. The hearing continues.