A disused army barracks is set to be converted, without consultation, into a 500-capacity prison, as the pressure on prison places grows more acute.The Guardian has learned that the government plans to convert Connaught barracks, near Dover, into a category D prison as an emergency measure.The site has been abandoned since March when the 1st Battalion the Parachute Regiment, its former occupier, was relocated to south Wales.Dover district council will be informed of the government's plans for the site today at a meeting with the Home Office. Unlike with proposals for a newly built prison, the government will not have to go through a planning application or consult residents or local politicians.The proposal is one of a number of emergency measures being considered by Prison Service managers as the prison population pushes closer to absolute capacity. The prison population in England and Wales on Friday was 79,145, leaving only 800 spare places.Another emergency measure under consideration is the conversion of a wing of Ashworth secure hospital in Merseyside, which would release a further 300 spaces. The plans come amid complaints from trade unions that the government's National Offender Management Service, overseeing both prisons and the probation service, is in "crisis".Paul Watkins, the Conservative leader of Dover council, said yesterday the town was being forced to accept the barracks conversion because of the government's "failing" prisons policy."They have not catered for expanding prison populations. They do not appear to understand how to run open prisons. Matched with the issue of asylum and immigration that has affected Dover in the past, a lot of people and my council have no faith in the current situation," he said.Dover, already home to a secure immigration detention centre, was "doing its fair share" in providing secure premises for detainees, he said.Thanks in part to the barracks' favourable location, next to Dover's Norman castle and with panoramic views across the Channel to France, a number of plans for the site were under consideration, including a further education college, new housing or satellite university with halls of residence. The barracks, still surrounded by high fences and coils of barbed wire, sit next to a large housing estate, where residents yesterday also expressed unhappiness at the fact that they have not been consulted."I wouldn't feel too happy if it were to become a prison," said Roy Clayton, 46, a former soldier who bought his house on the estate from the Ministry of Defence. "I am concerned about the security aspect - there are a lot of young families here. I don't think the government has really thought it through." He said he would be consulting the local residents' committee, "but the problem is, this has all come through the back door. It's not being openly discussed by the local government or the national government.""I'm not too pleased about all this," said Melanie Maxlow, 27, another resident of the estate. "It would literally be on our doorstep. I would worry a lot about the security, especially as it is supposed to be an open prison."