I grew up in a world of drugs and violence. I didn't stand a chance. This is my story. So goes the sub heading of my memoir, Criminal. I made money from it, enough to move to Devon with my wife. But I'm now wondering if the government are intending to force me to give the money back.A bill will be presented to the House of Lords this Tuesday that could lead to convicted criminals having the earnings from their memoirs confiscated. If the present government didn't have such a stunning track record for shortsightedness, lies, and greed I'd be saying – hang on, surely there must be some mistake? But predictably they are attempting to implement yet another highly dubious new law. This one could affect the lives and livelihoods of reforming convicted criminals.The government is granting the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) the power to apply for an Exploitation Proceeds Order (EPO). An Orwellian-sounding name if ever I heard one. The EPO will mean that any offender who publishes an account of their crime will be subjected to a further court case where the state has the power to confiscate the money they earn from publication. The Ministry of Justice estimates that only two cases a year will come to court, at a cost to the taxpayer of £370,000. They note that "any proceeds recovered by the scheme are unlikely to exceed enforcement costs unless the criminals' memoirs are widely read and generate significant amounts of profit". The proposed EPO could be applied against anyone found guilty of any offence. Where I wonder, will the excess confiscated cash go?Convicted criminals already "pay" for their crimes through sentencing and, where the conviction is sound, rightly so. But the government is now proposing secondary punishments and a further removal of liberty, specifically the freedom to profit from memoir writing.I work with a wide group of men and women who I encourage to explore the medium of writing as a road to rehabilitation and a possible avenue of income. We begin where all writers begin, with their own experience. The writing obviously involves their crimes, which are wide-ranging. I don't censor their work. I do encourage them to look at using an alias, as in the Write to Freedom blogs. This protects the writers and the victims of their crimes. I'm currently commissioning some of the former prisoners I've worked with to write regular blogs for a national newspaper. Will this mean that Soca will come after them for the money I'm paying them which in turn comes off the back of my own memoir writing and journalism?I have some questions for the ministers proposing this bill:• Does this mean you will own the publishing copyright on my life?• At what point will I stop "paying" for my previous crimes and misdemeanours?• If this bill becomes law where does my future career lie as a former criminal trying to help other criminals rehabilitate and earn a living through writing?Every stage in my life as a professional writer has brought me closer to understanding what led me down that road. It is likely that some criminals have entered the paid publishing process as a cynical way to earn money off the back of their crimes, without a thought for the victims of their crimes. The thought of it enrages me, but we must not legislate against this. Who can say that the dark motivations of a convicted criminal being paid to write a memoir won't lead to some kind of awakening and rehabilitation, especially after exposure to and critiques from the reading, paying public? It happened to me and I've seen it happen to countless individuals whose lives have been changed after being paid to write about their criminal lives.This could be the beginning of a chilling, slippery slope. Soca will not only be watching us but hunting us down and fleecing us for every penny that we convicted writers earn from our memoirs, whether we're reforming or not. Truth really is becoming stranger, and more hazardous, than fiction.If you would like to contribute to English PEN's campaign on this issue, contact writersinprison@englishpen.org