It promises to be one of the more colourful jury trials of 2005, involving a farmer, an antisocial behaviour order, and the farmer's rebellious pigs.Brian Hagan, who was earlier this week made the subject of an Asbo following complaints that his pigs repeatedly escaped and caused havoc, yesterday demanded the right to have his case decided by a crown court jury. His lawyer also said the Norfolk farmer was considering mounting a legal challenge against the Asbo, raising the possibility of the tale of the troublesome pigs making it all the way to the high court. What may turn out to be a legal saga began modestly on Monday when magistrates imposed the Asbo, often used to curb the activities of unruly teenagers, on 62-year-old Mr Hagan. His pigs had been accused of burrowing out of their enclosure and chasing neighbours, digging up gardens and frightening horses. The magistrates at Cromer decided an interim Asbo would be sufficient after being told that the farmer, from the village of Briston, near Fakenham, had built a wooden fence as back-up to an electric fence. The idea was that the interim order, which applied to Mr Hagan's six geese as well as his 100 pigs - but excluded his Jack Russell - would be with drawn if the fence was deemed adequate. But within hours of the measure being imposed, the pigs allegedly escaped yet again. Wearing his work boots and an old jumper, Mr Hagan was hauled back before magistrates in King's Lynn yesterday. Dorothy Pulsford-Harris, prosecuting, said that shortly after Monday's order was made "some 20 pigs escaped again and were digging up gardens and hedges". The farmer denied breaching the interim Asbo and told the magistrates he wanted his case to be put before a jury at a crown court. After the hearing his lawyer, Arthur Balls, said: "He is considering challenging the order. "It is the view of the defence that this is not the type of situation an Asbo should be used in." Mr Balls said the farmer was keen to stop his pigs from escaping and wanted to express his appreciation for the public support he had received. While many villagers have expressed frustration at the pigs, some local people have seen the funny side. In the past few days the village sign has been amended to read "Briston, twinned with Pigsville" while the post office has been renamed "Pork Office."