Former world featherweight champion Naseem Hamed was today jailed for 15 months after he admitted dangerous driving following a horrific crash in his £300,000 sports car.The flamboyant fighter wrecked his McLaren-Mercedes near one of his Sheffield homes in May last year in a collision which left another man with fractures to "every major bone in his body".Hamed was jailed today by the Honorary Recorder of Sheffield, Judge Alan Goldsack QC, at the city's crown court. "I have to balance the many features in this case;" said the judge, "the aggravating features of hugely excessive speed, a blatantly dangerous manoeuvre, your persistent disregard of the speeding laws and the dreadful consequences of this offence for your victims against the mitigating features of a guilty plea, your good character in all respects other than motoring matters and the absence of some features present in many such cases - the most obvious being drink. "I have no doubt the only possible sentence here is an immediate custodial sentence. It is far too serious for anything else. Having performed that balancing exercise, there will be a prison sentence of 15 months." Hamed was also banned from driving for four years.Showing no emotion as he was sent down, Hamed left the dock with two security guards. Members of his family, who were sitting in the packed public gallery, broke down in tears as the judge jailed the former world champion. Hamed's solicitor Steve Smith said he was "very disappointed" with the result, but that "Nas himself was philosophical."Nas at all times has said throughout this case, before we went to court and during the investigative process, has said countless times throughout that he has regret and remorse for how that family has suffered."Obviously he would have preferred not to have been sent to prison if that could have been avoidable but he took his penalty and accepted his penalty in the manner I would expect from him." Asked how Hamed would cope with prison, Smith said: "I think anybody in a situation like this would be fearful about what would happen. I don't think he's unique in that respect but I think he dealt with it with extreme dignity which is nothing less than I would expect from him. "Naz will deal with it as Naz deals with everything in his life. He will come to terms with it and he will deal with it and I think he'll deal with it with great dignity." The court heard how Hamed was anxious to impress a businessman Asif Ayub, 46, who was a passenger in the car at the time of the crash. Both had an interest in cars and Hamed was showing what his could do when he crossed a solid white line at a speed of at least 90mph and crashed head-on into a Volkswagen Golf that emerged from a dip in the road.The Golf, driven by 38-year-old Anthony Burgin, was immediately stopped and propelled backwards by the impact of the collision. Hamed's car then hit a second vehicle, a Ford Mondeo he had been trying to overtake. The court heard that the driver of the Mondeo, Michael Wood, described Hamed's overtaking manoeuvre as "stupid, suicide, ridiculous".