A 46-year-old nurse suspected of murdering three hospital patients at Stepping Hill hospital was bailed on Sunday night, pending further inquiries, police said.Victorino Chua, from Heaton Norris, Stockport, was arrested on Thursday on suspicion of tampering with medical records at the hospital in Stockport, Cheshire. He was further arrested on Sunday on suspicion of three counts of murder and 18 counts of causing grievous bodily harm.He has been bailed in relation to all matters until an unconfirmed date in April, Greater Manchester police said.Detectives had successfully applied at the weekend for extra time to question Chua. They had until 10.10am on Monday to interrogate him over the alteration of records at the hospital, in Hazel Grove, following an alleged incident overnight between 2 and 3 January, when notes were apparently altered and a patient was given extra medication. The patient has since been discharged after making a full recovery.Police said it was important "no one jumps to any conclusions". A statement said officers had questioned Chua in relation to the deliberate contamination of products at the hospital between 1 June and 15 July last year, and he was being questioned about the murders of Tracey Arden and pensioners Arnold Lancaster and Derek Weaver.Detectives have been investigating the poisoning of patients at the hospital last summer when pouches of saline were apparently contaminated with insulin.Another nurse, Rebecca Leighton, 27, who was arrested in July in connection with the investigation, was released from Styal prison after six weeks on remand when charges against her were dropped. She had strongly protested her innocence. She was subsequently dismissed from the hospital after she admitted taking a prescription painkiller without consent, but it is understood that she will appealChris Burke, the chief executive of the Stockport NHS Foundation Trust, which runs the hospital, said he was "appalled by the malicious intent" in the latest incident. He added: "Thanks to the skill and experience of our staff, it was spotted and reported immediately and, most importantly, we ensured no patient suffered any ill-effects."This criminal act does not reflect on the good care provided by dedicated and committed staff and the effective working practices in our hospital. The safety of our patients remains our highest priority."Yesterday, colleagues and patients described the Filipino-born father-of-two Chua as dedicated to his profession. Colleagues said Chua, who was known as Vic, was very caring towards patients. According to the Nursing and Midwifery Council register, he was first registered in 2003 and his nursing registration was due for renewal in August this year. He worked in Cheshire and Merseyside.