 10.05pm GMT SummaryWe're closing this live blog now. But first here's a final recap of today's events:• Three women have been freed from 30 years of domestic slavery in a house in Lambeth, south London. Police said although they were aware of cases of people being held for up to 10 years, they had never seen a case of this “magnitude” before.• One of the women, who is 30, may have spent all her life in the house and like the others had only “limited freedom”, the Metropolitan police said. The other women are a 69-year-old from Malaysia and a 57-year-old from Ireland. The three are “highly traumatised” and are currently together at a place of safety, Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland said. They are not thought to be related to one another. There is no evidence of sexual abuse.• Although the women were rescued on 25 October, police only moved to arrest two suspects this morning after “establishing the facts” and because of the fact the victims are “extremely traumatised”. The suspects are not British and are both 67, police said. Police would not confirm whether they were related.• The rescue was facilitated by the organisation Freedom Charity after one of the women contacted the charity after seeing its spokeswoman Aneeta Prem on the television. Prem praised her as being “hugely courageous” and called this “a story of great hope”. 9.07pm GMT Scotland Yard has released more details of the rescue of the three women.The Irish woman held captive made an initial call to the Freedom Charity on Friday 18 October, after watching a TV documentary. The woman told the charity helpline she had been held against her will in a house in London for more than 30 years. She also said there were two others with her.That same day the charity passed the information onto the Met's Sexual Offences Exploitation and Child Abuse Command and it was referred to the Human Trafficking Unit on Monday 21 October.Police and detectives began to investigate to establish the exact location where the women were being held. At the same time workers from the Freedom Charity maintained contact with the women in a series of secret phone calls.With the help of the charity two of the women - a 30-year-old British woman and a 57-year-old Irish woman – arranged to meet with detectives and charity workers on Friday 25 October. They identified the location where they had been held and police attended the address and also rescued a 69-year-old Malaysian woman. All three women were then taken to a safe location where they remain in the care of professionals.Updated at 10.00pm GMT 7.53pm GMT Frank Field, MP vice chair of the Human Trafficking Foundation, has called for urgent action to update the law and introduce a modern day slavery act.He said: “The horrors of this case emphasise the crucial need for a new Modern Slavery bill, along with immediate practical measures to tackle modern slavery, which we are now increasingly aware is taking place through many insidious forms across the country. I am currently conducting an evidence review for the Home Secretary on her proposed Bill– all of the evidence to date highlights the need for urgent action."In October the home secretary, Theresa May, asked Field to lead an independent evidence review for the government’s planned Modern Slavery bill. He is due to present a report to May before Christmas, which will include legislative and non-legislative recommendations for tackling the issue.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close  6.29pm GMT The three women found in south London are the latest in a series of apparently similar cases of domestic slavery and abduction in the UK and worldwide to have gained attention. 6.04pm GMT Josh Halliday has been speaking to Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland. Josh asked if him if the 30-year-old alleged victim grew up in the house. Hyland said: That's right. it appears that the 30-year-old woman has spent her entire life under the control or in the company of these people. We're trying to establish what contact there was with all the victims with the outside world. There was, we know, some controlled freedom but we're working to establish what that exactly looked like.He added: They had limited freedom, there was some controlled freedom, their lives were allegedly one of domestic servants or forced labour.There's a lot of difficulties with the victims; they're traumatised. We're getting professional help to establish the events that have happened to them and that's why it's taken us so long to establish the facts up to this point.In London we've investigated cases where people have been held in servitude or forced labour for up to 10 years but 30 years is quite extraordinary and not something we've seen beforeThe women are being looked after by professionals at the moment. When they were released we put care measures in place but to actually say how they felt, we can't establish that at the moment.It's been a very difficult process and to establish the facts has been one [a process] that we haven't experienced before.The people were living in a normal community, but that's not unusual for cases of servitude, trafficking or forced labour. We've dealt with cases and convicted people who've kept children in houses in similar circumstances - it's something we would bring to the attention of communities that it does happen. 5.55pm GMT PA quotes Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland as saying he was unable to confirm any relationship between the suspects and the three women who were freed. I don't know any relationships between the women in respect of the suspects. Clearly, because of the nationalities of the women that have been held victims, it's very unlikely they are related in any way. It's part of our investigation - who had any freedom, what sort of freedom, under what conditions that freedom was allowed.This is an extraordinary case. We have had cases where people have been held for up to 10 years previously but three decades is unseen before in the United Kingdom. 5.48pm GMT Owen Bowcott points out this report by the Centre for Social Justice, published earlier this year and entitled It Happens Here.  The report warned that despite William Wilberforce’s abolition campaign over 200 years ago, there are still slaves in modern Britain.Many cases, it argued, do not involve international trafficking: “Increasingly we are seeing that UK nationals are also forced into modern slavery, without crossing any international border.”It urged that a new slavery act “should include a mandatory duty to investigate all possible cases of potential modern slavery, and a statement of non-prosecution of victims who had no choice but to commit a criminal offence whilst they were enslaved.” Updated at 5.57pm GMT 5.42pm GMT Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland is being interviewed on BBC News now. He says his human trafficking unit receives reports of 200 offences a year.He points to the government's planned human trafficking bill as making it easier for police to deal with such crimes.  5.40pm GMT SummaryHere is a summary:• Three women have been freed from 30 years of domestic slavery in a house in Lambeth, south London. Police said although they were aware of cases of people being held for up to 10 years, they had never seen a case of this “magnitude” before.• One of the women, who is 30, may have spent all her life in the house and like the others had only “limited freedom”, the Metropolitan police said. The other women are a 69-year-old from Malaysia and a 57-year-old from Ireland. The three are “highly traumatised” and are currently together at a place of safety, Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland said. They are not thought to be related to one another. There is no evidence of sexual abuse.• Although the women were rescued on 25 October, police only moved to arrest two suspects this morning after “establishing the facts” and because of the fact the victims are “extremely traumatised”. The suspects are not British and are both 67, police said. Police would not confirm whether they were related.• The rescue was facilitated by the organisation Freedom Charity after one of the women contacted the charity after seeing its spokeswoman Aneeta Prem on the television. Prem praised her as being “hugely courageous” and called this “a story of great hope”. 5.37pm GMT The Walk Free Foundation estimates that there are 4,200-4,600 slaves in the UK, writes my colleague Mona Chalabi. This number includes slavery (ie treating another person as if they were property), forced labour and human trafficking. 5.21pm GMT In October London assembly member Andrew Boff wrote a report on human trafficking in the capital. Dave Hill wrote about it here. It describes a "shadow city" within London in which several everyday strands of economy and lifestyle activity depend heavily on the victims of trafficking, which is itself a disparate and varied industry with UK as well as overseas origins ...Boff believes that amnesties should be extended to victims who are irregular migrants in order to encourage more disclosure of what appears to be a largely invisible form of criminal abuse. He tells me that he will meet with Boris Johnson's policing deputy Stephen Greenhalgh to discuss the implications of the report soon. Reading it has already made me look at my city, its streets and its people differently. Your thoughtful comments always welcome.  The report describes a 'shadow city' within London. Photograph: David Levene for the Guardian 5.19pm GMT A spokesperson for the Malaysian high commission in London said they had received no notification of this matter so far, reports Vikram Dodd. The spokesperson added Malaysian diplomats would "ask for clarification" from British authorities. 5.11pm GMT Another police press conference is expected at 5.30pm. 5.09pm GMT Peter Walker has more on the Freedom Charity, the organisation that has facilitated the rescue of the three women and now finds itself at the centre of this story. He writes: The Freedom Charity, the organisation contacted by three women rescued from alleged domestic slavery in south London and which worked with police to secure their release, is primarily focused on forced marriages, particularly involving children and young people.The group also campaigns on so-called "honour" crimes, in which people are targeted by their family – often their own parents – for going against cultural norms, particularly in relationships, something most prevalent in communities of south Asian origin. The charity calls such offences "dishonour crime".Established by Aneeta Prem, an Indian-born London magistrate, the group runs a 24-hour helpline and text service for people to report forced marriages and violence connected to such situations.It also offers education and training to help end forced marriages, and is particularly focused on younger people: the charity's mascot is a cartoon tiger called Fremont. There is also a mobile app connected to the issue, and Prem has written a novel based around forced marriage.The telephone number is 0845 607 0133 and texts should be sent as "4freedom" to 88802. 4.52pm GMT Freedom Charity has put out this statement from spokeswoman Aneeta Prem: Freedom charity, hearing about the situation of the women, took immediate action in planning their safe rescue. Facilitating their escape was achieved using utmost sensitivity and secrecy and with the safety of the women as our primary concern.I would like to praise the outstanding work of the Freedom charity team and partners for getting the women to a place of safety. 4.51pm GMT A source says the Freedom Charity told the police that the women said they were frightened and were scared of trying to escape from the house – hence the relatively low-key way the women left the Lambeth residence, as opposed to police raiding it. 4.47pm GMT Vikram Dodd has more information from the Metropolitan police:Where were the arrests made?In Lambeth Borough.Are the victims related to one another?We do not believe them to be.Are they in police custody?No, they are in another place of safety. They are extremely traumatised which explains the discrepancy between when the Freedom Charity were contacted and when the arrests were made. We continue to work closely with the victims to gather further information.Was the youngest victim born in the house in Lambeth?We are not sure where she was born but she appears to have been in servitude for her entire life.Any suggestion of sexual abuse?There is no evidence of sexual abuse.Have you dealt with similar cases before?The Met's unit has dealt with cases of people held in servitude against their will for around 10 years. This is the first time we have come across people who have been held for such a considerable length of time.Has the youngest victim had contact with the outside world?We believe that she, and the others, had limited freedom. We will continue to speak to the victims to ascertain what this ascertained. 4.41pm GMT Josh Halliday reports that the women were freed on 25 October.Josh Halliday (@JoshHalliday)Three women were freed on 25 October after being convinced it was safe to leave, police sayNovember 21, 2013 4.40pm GMT SummaryHere is a summary of what we know so far.• Three women have been freed from 30 years of domestic slavery in a house in Lambeth, south London. Police said although they were aware of cases of people being held for up to 10 years, they had never seen a case of this “magnitude” before.• One of the women, who is 30, has spent all her life in the house and has never seen the outside world, the Metropolitan police. The other women are a 69-year-old from Malaysia and a 57-year-old from Ireland. The three are “highly traumatised” and are currently together at a place of safety, Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland said.• Although the women were rescued in October, police only moved to arrest two suspects this morning after “establishing the facts”. The suspects are not British and are in their 60s, police said. Police would not confirm whether they were related.• The rescue was facilitated by the charity Freedom Charity after one of the women contacted the organisation after seeing its spokeswoman Aneeta Prem on the television. Prem praised her as being “hugely courageous” and called this “a story of great hope”. 4.31pm GMT Asked how they were held, Aneeta Prem of Freedom Charity says they were "basically treated as domestic slaves".Asked about the courage of the woman who phoned the charity, Prem says that was "hugely courageous". "It's amazing, actually, that she had the courage to do that," she says.  4.29pm GMT Julian Druker (@Julian5News)Met: arrested man and woman are not British #slaveryNovember 21, 2013Josh Halliday (@JoshHalliday)Police can't confirm that any of those rescued or arrested are relatedNovember 21, 2013 4.29pm GMT Prem says this is a "story of great hope" and the women can help rebuild their lives slowly. "On rare occasions you can say you have helped save lives," she says. 4.28pm GMT Prem says the "safety and rescue of these women were paramount" for the charity and the police. 4.27pm GMT Aneeta Prem of Freedom Charity is being interviewed now on BBC News. She says one of the women saw her on the news and saw the name "Freedom Charity". She called the charity and was believed, Prem says, and the charity then helped rescue them.Updated at 7.57pm GMT 4.26pm GMT Here is Hyland's statement in full: This morning at approximately 7.30pm [sic] we arrested two people in their 60s at an address in Lambeth as part of an investigation into slavery and domestic servitude.We were contacted in October by Freedom Charity after they had received a call from women stating they were being held against their will at an address in London for more than 30 years.Through further investigation, we were able to identify the house where they were being held.With the help of sensitive negotiations conducted by the charity, the three women, a 69-year-old from Malaysia, a 57-year-old from Ireland, and a 30-year-old British woman, were all rescued.All three women were highly traumatised and were taken to a place of safety, where they remain. They are in the care of a charity who deal with people who are deeply traumatised.These are deeply traumatised people and it is essentially that we work sensitively to establish the facts in this case.When we had established the facts, we conducted the arrests this morning.We have established that all three women were held in this situation for at least 30 years. They did have some controlled freedom.The human trafficking unit of the Metropolitan police deals with many cases of servitude and forced labour. We have seen some cases where people have been held for up to 10 years, but we have never seen anything of this magnitude before. 4.20pm GMT Hyland says he runs the Met police human trafficking unit. At 7.30am this morning two people were arrested at an address in Lambeth as part of an investigation into domestic servitude.They were contacted by Freedom Charity in October.The police identified the house where they were being held.With the help of sensitive negotiations from the charity, the three women were rescued.All of them were highly traumatised and taken to a place of safety, where they are in the care of a charity that deals with traumatised people.When we had established the facts, we conducted the arrests this morning, he says.All three women were held in this situation for 30 years. They had some "controlled freedom" he says.The police have seen some cases where people were held for 10 years, but never anything of this magnitude, he says.Updated at 4.22pm GMT 4.17pm GMT Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland of the Metropolitan police is about to speak now.  4.11pm GMT Detective Inspector Kevin Hyland, from the Met police's Human Trafficking Unit, said earlier that "a television documentary on forced marriages relating to the work of the Freedom Charity was the catalyst that prompted one of the victims to call for help and led to their rescue".Órla Ryan reports: ITV's Exposure: Forced to Marry documentary, which was broadcast on October 9, examined the practice of forced and underage marriage in Britain.For the programme two reporters posed as the mother and brother of a 14-year-old girl who was due to be married to a 20-year-old man she had met once.The undercover journalists contacted 56 mosques across Britain and asked clerics to perform an Islamic marriage (a nikah). Two-thirds of those contacted refused to perform the marriage, but 18 agreed.The imams were specifically told that the "bride" did not consent to the marriage, but would agree if it was arranged.The legal age for marriage in Britain is 16, but under Sharia law girls can marry once they reach puberty.A number of clerics who agreed to perform the marriage have since been suspended.According to government figures, around 400 schoolchildren, mainly girls from South Asian communities, are forced into marriage annually in the UK. 4.10pm GMT Josh Halliday (@JoshHalliday)Police believe alleged slaves had some "controlled freedom" but nothing moreNovember 21, 2013 4.09pm GMT The arrests took place this morning, but the women were rescued a few weeks ago, Sky News's Martin Brunt is reporting.He says police have said the 30-year-old woman has had no contact with the outside world. The women are very traumatised, and it has been a slow process getting them to answer questions. 4.06pm GMT Recent slavery cases have been dealt with under section 71 of the 2009 Coroners and Injustice Act which outlaws servitude, Owen Bowcott reports. He adds: The home secretary, Theresa May, has promised further legislation to tackle the problem of trafficking which is likely to be called the modern day slavery bill. The measure is due to be published before the end of the year. May has said it will eradicate an “evil in our midst”.In 2008, the Home Office estimated that there were approximately 4,000 victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation in the UK at any one time. 4.05pm GMT Julian Druker (@Julian5News)Met: we assume the 30 year-old had no contact with the outside world #slaveryNovember 21, 2013 4.04pm GMT Julian Druker (@Julian5News)Met Police says #slavery details coming out slowly as the 3 women are 'deeply traumatised'November 21, 2013 4.04pm GMT 5News (@5_News)Met Police say they have never dealt with anything on this scale before http://t.co/Le4bpMPWa7 #slaveryNovember 21, 2013 4.03pm GMT More information is coming through from Scotland Yard now.martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery Women were rescued a few weeks ago. Arrests this morning.November 21, 2013martinbrunt (@skymartinbrunt)#slavery Women were kept greatly controlled. Not thought related to each other. 30 year old has lived there all her life.November 21, 2013Josh Halliday (@JoshHalliday)30 year old woman was held for her whole life against her will, police sayNovember 21, 2013Josh Halliday (@JoshHalliday)Police believe 30 year old woman had no contact with outside world that most would consider normalNovember 21, 2013 4.02pm GMT Aneeta Prem of Freedom Charity said earlier that it took a week to rescue the women once they contacted the charity. The police said they were contacted by Freedom Charity in October, suggesting they were rescued a few weeks ago. 4.00pm GMT The house is in the London borough of Lambeth, my colleague Josh Halliday reports. Josh Halliday (@JoshHalliday)Alleged slavery house is in Lambeth, south LondonNovember 21, 2013 3.54pm GMT The Metropolitan police press conference is expected shortly. This is the statement the police put out earlier: Police were contacted in October by Freedom Charity after they had received a call from a woman stating she had been held against her will in a house in London for more than 30 years.Further inquiries by police revealed the location of the house and with the help of sensitive negotiations conducted by the charity the three women, a 69-year-old Malaysian woman, a 57-year-old Irish woman and a 30-year-old British woman were all rescued.All three women, who were highly traumatised, were taken to a place of safety where they remain.Updated at 3.54pm GMT 3.43pm GMT Prem described them as being held in “domestic slavery” but she said she had not heard of any sexual motive. “They haven’t told me anything like that at all.” She said the women had been too frightened to leave.She said: “The ladies were absolutely terrified of these people they were held by.”The three presumed victims had access to their own rooms but were "very restricted on everything they could do", Prem said.Prem said: I just can’t believe that human beings could treat each other that way. I think it’s something that’s so barbaric and so out of anyone’s imagination that anybody could treat anybody in such a way that people feel that they are slaves, if you like.Updated at 3.54pm GMT 3.40pm GMT Asked about what help the women will be given, the charity founder said: They are going to be afforded all the help and support that can be. I'm so grateful they saw the news. Now they will try to rebuild their lives. 3.30pm GMT Prem said she thought the neighbours knew nothing about what was going on. “One of the things about living in our capital city is people don’t know what’s happening next door to them.”She said the house was “an ordinary house in an ordinary street that wouldn’t raise any concerns with anybody else”.Prem said they were now together in “a place of safety and they’re doing very well considering the difficult ordeal they’ve gone through”. There had been “lots of tears and lots of hugging”, she said. There were huge cheers in the Freedom Charity call centre when they were freed, Prem said.Updated at 3.49pm GMT 3.24pm GMT Freedom Charity, an organisation that works on issues including forced marriage, said the case emerged after a woman phoned its helpline.Aneeta Prem of the charity has just been speaking to Sky News.She said the women had to make calls to the charity in secret and at set times because “they felt like they were in massive danger”.“With the help of the police we were able to get them out,” she said.She said she was “thrilled” this had happened.There was a week between them starting to make the calls and being released, she said.She said they were worried that they would not in the end want to leave “because obviously 30 years, being held in a very difficult situation, you become very institutionalised to a very bad way of living, so we had to ensure that when they were going to come out they didn’t then decide they were going to go back in”.They were able to leave the property without police help “but it was done in such a way that it was a very, very excellent thing that happened,” Prem said. She said she could not give more details, but she said people from Freedom Charity were there and the police were on standby.Updated at 3.50pm GMT 3.09pm GMT Three "highly traumatised" women have been rescued from a house in south London where they appear to have been held captive for three decades, Scotland Yard has said.A 69-year-old Malaysian woman, a 57-year-old Irish woman and a 30-year-old British woman were all rescued from the residential address on Thursday morning by detectives from the Metropolitan police Human Trafficking Unit.Two suspects – a 67-year-old man and a 67-year-old woman – were arrested at the address under the investigation into slavery and domestic servitude, the force said in a statement.My colleague Josh Halliday has the full story here.A police press conference is expected shortly and I’ll be covering it live here.Updated at 3.16pm GMT