The response to the riots in England shows law and order and the rule of law are ultimately different principles which can come into damaging conflict with each other. Fast-track justice is a contradiction in terms (Rushed justice can mean rough justice, 13 August). The all-night court sessions represent a law-and-order spectacle but not a defensible means of attaining justice. Now we see the prospect of evictions from public housing before the defendant has even been found guilty. In some cases, trivial offences – stealing chewing gum – have been treated with draconian punishment justified specifically because they were committed in the wider context of the riots. This contravenes a clear principle of the rule of law, which is that the punishment should fit the specific crime itself, and amounts, in effect, to punishment on the principle of guilt by association.Perhaps – given the priority of saving at all costs the political classes from any taint in the events of the past week – none of this would be of too much importance, were not the short-term prioritisation of law and order over the rule of law ultimately self-defeating. Without the rule of law, the principle of law and order simply becomes the principle of order – and we enter the world of the Ahmadinejads.Professor Thomas OsborneUniversity of Bristol• The prime minister seems to misunderstand the economics of council housing when he refers to it as "subsidised" (Suspect's mother could lose home, 13 August). The biggest subsidies over the past 30 years have been to owner-occupiers in the form of mortgage interest tax relief (formerly), exemption from capital gains tax and huge value-stimulating house purchase lending that we have all subsidised to the tune of £1tr or more when it led to bail-out of the banks. In addition, private landlords have been subsidised by a large part of the increases in housing benefit, to about £25bn a year, which passes straight through to subsidise rents. By contrast, between 1990 and 2004 council tenants suffered a "reverse subsidy" by the abstraction of some £13bn from housing revenue accounts.Peter Ambrose Visiting professor of housing and health, University of Brighton, Stephen Battersby President, Chartered Institute of Environmental Health, Peter Archer Chairman, Care and Repair, Rev Paul Nicolson Chairman, Zacchaeus 2000 Trust• I am 64, live in Hackney and am more frightened by the vindictive condemnation and desire for harsh punishment by the government and rightwing press than by the looting. I feel sorry for the kids caught up in the mindless excitement of the crowd and paying a heavy price because the government wishes to crush those involved rather than have to consider its responsibility for what is going wrong. I fear we have a government with no clue how the other half lives and which does not seem to give a damn.Tricia BickertonLondon