The mother of a 15-year-old boy murdered outside his school urged the families of his killers to turn them in today, saying: "We have to stop this."Zac Olumegbon, 15, from Brixton in south London, was stabbed to death as he arrived at his school on Friday. Four teenagers are being questioned by police about the killing.His mother, Shakira Olumegbon, yesterday recalled how the aspiring actor had performed at a conference the day before he was murdered, and told her what he wanted to do with his future.Mrs Olumegbon said: "That night he was in bed and he said: 'Mum, I know what I want to do.' He said: 'I want to go to America for a year and I want to come back to a sixth form college, and because of my performance they promised me a job as an actor.' He was full of hope."She recalled the last time she saw him: "In the morning I gave him a hug and said 'I'll see you later'."Mrs Olumegbon called for the families of the murderers to come forward. Holding a photograph of her smiling son in his school uniform, she said: "I know a mother, a father, a brother or sister knows who has done this. It's not revenge I'm after. But I want that mother to help bring our community together because this is too much. It's happening a lot. We have to stop this."Zac's brother Debo said: "If he was in a room talking, everyone would stop and listen. He was really funny." His sister Tayo said: "He was bright and funny. He was small for his age but he had such a huge presence. He had a beautiful smile."As her children comforted her, Mrs Olumegbon said: "He's not a violent boy. He's got a big mouth but he's not a violent boy at all. He's a small boy."She spoke of his fear as he walked to school: "Every time he went to school, he said: 'Mum, I'll go the other way, don't worry. It might take longer to get to school, but I'll walk the other way.'"Tayo Olumegbon added: "He was afraid of certain individuals in the Brixton area, so he didn't want to be around."She said arguments could start quickly on the streets: "I don't really think it takes that much these days anyway. Just a little argument, or someone looks at someone the wrong way."She made a direct appeal to her brother's killers and anyone that may be able to help the police. "Please come forward," she said. "I know people are scared, but we really need this information."We don't want it to happen again to another family. You see these things all the time and you never think it's going to happen to you."Debo Olumegbon added: "I feel like I've lost a part of me, in a way. His life was just taken away. For what? We don't know. There's no reason whatsoever. I'm just hoping that people can look at my mother, and just imagine that it was your mother, your family. Please come forward. This has gone too far."