John Major yesterday led a chorus of senior Tories in dismissing a call by the new shadow home secretary, David Davis, for the death penalty to be reintroduced in Britain.Amid some surprise in the Tory high command at Mr Davis's intervention, the former prime minister described the intense interest in his remarks as "bogus". Mr Major, an opponent of the death penalty who was appointed last week to a panel of "wise men" to advise the new Tory leader, Michael Howard, said: "This is David expressing a personal view that many people will agree with. But it isn't going to become party policy, in my judgment." Speaking on BBC1's Breakfast with Frost, the former prime minister said: "Margaret Thatcher was in favour of the death penalty all her time in parliament. She was prime minister, she had a big majority. It was never introduced as a government measure." His remarks came after Mr Davis attempted to portray himself as the standard-bearer of the Tory right by calling for the reintroduction of the death penalty in cases of "clearly premeditated and cold-blooded murder". In an interview with the Sunday Telegraph, he called for the death penalty to be available for serial murderers such as the Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe, and the Moors murderer Ian Brady. "The reason why people are against the death penalty very often is because of the risk of getting it wrong," he said. "With serial murders that is unlikely to happen." Well-placed Tories regarded Mr Davis's intervention as a less-than-subtle attempt to court the right after he decided not to challenge Mr Howard. Some MPs talked of "gesture politics", as he admitted that he would never try to reintroduce the death penalty even if he became home secretary. "I will not say I will deliver that, because I never can," he said. "But that is a reflection on my view on the morality of justice." His remarks were criticised by shadow ministers who oppose the death penalty. Tim Yeo, the centre-ground Tory spokesman on health and education, told Sky news: "This issue has always been dealt with on the basis of a free vote and David has obviously got very strong opinions about it. But I think today he's probably in a minority in the House of Commons." Even Bernard Jenkin, the rightwing ally of Iain Duncan Smith who is now shadow secretary of state for the regions, described Mr Davis's intervention as a "non-story". He told GMTV: "I've never been a supporter of it; I've always voted against it. Personally I don't think it would do anything practical to reduce crime in our country." Mr Davis's remarks, which gave him banner headlines in the Sunday Telegraph and the Mail on Sunday, were laughed off last night by frontbench colleagues who believe he is determined to reassert himself after a wretched few weeks. Many of his diehard supporters at Westminster have peeled away after Mr Davis declined to contest the leadership. Rewarded with the plum job of shadow home secretary, Mr Davis put in a poor performance against David Blunkett after the latter's statement on identity cards. When Mr Major was asked whether it was right to remove Mr Duncan Smith, he said: "It's painful to say it, but I think the evidence of the last few days suggests that it was."