The first full therapeutic community in a women's jail anywhere in the world is to be established in Winchester prison, Hampshire. Almost 40 years after the approach was pioneered for men at Grendon prison in Buckinghamshire, the West Hill women's annexe will open its doors next April. With the number of women prisoners having doubled in the past decade, the prison service believes that the new centre will be viable and hopes that the therapy will reduce reoffending. Jim Gomersall, governor of Winchester, says: "This is the first place in the world to try this. I have seen this type of place work so often in the past for men. It gives people a chance to re-grow. "It focuses on a holistic approach to an individual's personality disorder. It looks at the causes of their problems. Through group counselling, they will recollect the experiences they had as a child and, hopefully, get more reflection as to how appropriate their behaviour was." The annexe will be a "democratic therapeutic centre", where inmates will control more aspects of their lives, excluding security. The 87 inmates will be carefully chosen, but will be volunteers from among all women prisoners serving more than four years. Another therapeutic community (TC) in a women's prison is at Durham, but it is a "concept TC" that focuses only on helping drug addicts. Therapeutic communities in men's prisons have had a chequered history. The closure in February of the Max Glatt Unit at Wormwood Scrubs, west London, was a real setback for advocates of the approach. The Home Office blamed a need to save money for the refurbishment of another wing, to provide more cells, but the unit's work had been held back by staff shortages and a perceived lack of support from management. The Winchester development is generally being welcomed by penal reform groups, which argue that TCs are more humane but that women have been overlooked because male TCs tend to help sex and violent offenders. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, says: "The results from Grendon are compelling. What is ridiculous is that Grendon was set up 40 years ago." However, the groups say it is crucial that women have adequate support on release from West Hill. Maggie Hall, deputy director of Women in Prison, says: "These are damaged women and they mustn't be left high and dry." Anita Dockley, assistant director of the Howard League for Penal Reform, warns: "On release a person may not be able to access support. It is possible that more damage can be done by starting to address their background."