The government is losing £3.75bn a year in excise duty because of tobacco and alcohol smuggling, an all-party committee of MPs reports today. Despite a government campaign to crack down on fraud, the Treasury select committee said 10% of excise duty receipts were going unpaid, equivalent to the revenue from 1p in income tax. Gordon Brown's budget speech tomorrow will detail attempts to tackle tax avoidance and evasion, but the report by MPs said there had been little progress in combating smuggling over the past four years. Out of every 10 packets of hand-rolling tobacco consumed in Britain, the duty has been paid on only three of them. "The illicit market share for hand-rolling tobacco has accounted for more than 50% of the market every year since 1999-2000, and the market share is now rising," says the report. "Effective action is urgently required." The chairman of the committee, Michael Fallon, said a greater concern was the lack of proper measures taken to combat counterfeit cigarettes. "When we visited China - the major source of counterfeit cigarettes - we were amazed to find that there was only one customs officer for the entire region, who was based in Hong Kong." After finding that the official was in Hong Kong purely for historical reasons, the committee recommended that he be moved to mainland China and that the number of officers in the region be increased. "We were also amazed that there has been no meeting between UK customs and the state tobacco monopoly administration - the agency charged with tackling cigarette counterfeiting in China," said Mr Fallon. A spokesman for Customs and Excise said: "We have stemmed the tide of tobacco smuggling so successfully that criminals have now turned their attention to counterfeit cigarettes." Diesel and spirits fraud had been significantly reduced. The report said it was hard to pin down the scale of revenues lost from alcohol smuggling but it supported a government plan to introduce a tax stamp on bottles of spirits to guarantee the duty had been paid. The drinks industry has complained about the cost burden of this additional regulation, but the report said expecting the drinks industry to invest £7m and a further £5m each year to introduce the tax stamp scheme is not a "disproportionate" response, given that it would help to save about £250m each year of lost excise revenues. Mr Fallon said: "The sums being lost every year are huge and it is clear that the current strategy is not working."