Kate McCann was reinterviewed today by Portuguese police investigating the disappearance of her daughter Madeleine. Her husband, Gerry, is to be reinterviewed tomorrow, a family friend said.Mrs McCann arrived at the police station in Portimao in the Algarve at 2pm, accompanied by her lawyer, Carlos Pinto de Abreu.Portuguese police called Mr McCann on Monday to request the interviews, specifying that Mrs McCann should be questioned first.It is only the second time she has been formally interviewed by the police, the first being on May 4, the day after Madeleine went missing. Detectives have already questioned her husband twice.It is expected that Mrs McCann's interview will be longer than the first, which lasted three to four hours.It is now 126 days since four-year-old Madeleine went missing from her bed in her family's holiday apartment in the Algarve resort of Praia da Luz while her parents dined in a nearby tapas restaurant.The McCanns have so far remained in Portugal with their two-year-old twins, Sean and Amelie, to help with the search for their daughter."Today Kate McCann has returned to Portimao to be questioned by the Portuguese police to assist them in their investigations," said Justine McGuinness, the family's spokeswoman. "Kate and Gerry are happy to help the police in their investigations to find their daughter Madeleine, as they have been since she was taken. "Kate continues to believe that Madeleine is still alive, and to hope and pray that she will be returned soon. Kate is a loving, gentle mother - one of the victims in an extraordinary and terrible set of events." Ms McGuinness also issued a brief statement on behalf of Mrs McCann."I miss Madeleine so much. Gerry and I want to appeal again to the person or people who took her or know who took her to do the right thing," the statement said. "It is not too late - please let her go or call the police. "We came to Portugal an ordinary family of five. We just want to know what happened on May 3 and want to be able to go home one family, reunited."The McCanns lawyer has separately applied for the couple to be made "assistants" in the case. This is a legal designation that would give them access to more information about the case than they have as witnesses.The couple had planned to return to their home in Rothley, Leicestershire, on Sunday, but have had to postpone this because of the police interviews.It is understood that none of the seven friends on holiday with the McCanns at the time of Madeleine's disappearance have been asked to return for further interviews.The development came after Portuguese police yesterday received results from forensic tests carried out by a British laboratory, triggering reports that arrests could be imminent.Experts at the Forensic Science Service (FSS) in Birmingham have spent the past month analysing samples from the McCanns' holiday apartment.The evidence recovered from the flat includes blood flecks found by British sniffer dogs on the wall in the bedroom where Madeleine was last seen on May 3.A source confirmed yesterday that information gathered by the FSS had been "regularly fed back" to investigators in Portugal, although the official line remains that tests are "ongoing".Portuguese police said they were now giving "special attention" to the theory that Madeleine is dead. Their conclusions about this will hinge on the results of the FSS analysis.Also waiting for details of the tests is the only official suspect in the case, the Anglo-Portuguese expat Robert Murat, 33.He has denied any involvement in Madeleine's disappearance and has said he believes the Portuguese authorities will shortly clear him formally.Mr Murat's spokesman, Tuck Price, said he had not been told about any developments in the case.The FSS results are understood to have been passed to Leicestershire police, who are liaising with Portuguese investigators.The McCanns are expected to take part in a religious festival in Praia da Luz this weekend. They will attend an ecumenical service in the village church of Nossa Senhora da Luz on Saturday night as part of the festival of Our Lady of Luz.