A teenage burglar shot dead while trying to steal antiques from a remote farmhouse had been before the courts 28 times for crimes that included theft, fraud, offences against property and public disorder, a jury heard yesterday.Fred Barras, 16, a market trader from Newark, Nottinghamshire - who was on bail at the time of his death - was accompanied on the burgling trip by two men with even more convictions.Norwich crown court heard that between them they had committed 115 offences. Barras was shot in the back last August in Bleak House in the Norfolk village of Emneth Hungate. Farmer Tony Martin, 55, is accused of killing Barras at his home. He is also accused of attempting to murder and unlawfully wounding Brendan Fearon, 30, another burglar, with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. Martin has denied these charges and another charge of possessing a firearm and ammunition with intent to injure life. He has pleaded guilty to possession of a Winchester pump action shotgun without holding a firearm certificate. Fearon, who was severely injured after being shot twice, told the court that he allowed Barras to go on the burgling trip to "keep him out of trouble". He had found the 16-year-old drinking with a group of his friends and allowed him to come along for the ride. Fearon told the jury that he and Barras and another man, Darren Bark, travelled to Bleak House after being told it was filled with antiques. He claimed that they went there to look at it. He and Barras got out of the car and began to look around some of the farm buildings when they were confronted by a rottweiler dog "shaking its mouth". He added that the pair stumbled across Bleak House, smashed a window and went inside in an attempt to get away from the dog. "I was feeling about for a window or a door. I saw what I thought was a torch flashing and heard Fred shout: 'He's got me'," said Fearon. He told the court that he saw the face of an old man in the flashing light. "Then I saw a flash, heard a noise and my left leg went numb. I just went mad and ended up looking for somewhere to get out." Fearon managed to remove a barred window and escape through it, followed by Barras. He said: "I heard him shout 'He's got me. Mum. I'm sorry'." The case continues.