A nightclub doorman battered two students to death and attacked three other women in a three-year campaign of violence, the Old Bailey heard today.Levi Bellfield is charged with murdering the French student Amelie Delagrange, 22, who died of severe head injuries after she was attacked while walking home from a night out. She had been living in London to improve her English.Mr Bellfield is also accused of murdering Marsha McDonnell, 19, who died after being struck on the head with a blunt object.Mr Bellfield, 39, is further charged with the attempted murders of the former convent school head girl Kate Sheedy, then 18, and Irma Dragoshi, then 36.His first alleged victim was Anna-Maria Rennie, then 17, whom he is said to have tried to bundle into his car.All the alleged attacks took place in west London in the space of less than three years.Brian Altman, prosecuting, told the jury: "There are such similarities between the offences that the chances of them having been committed by two or more men working independently can safely and sensibly be excluded, such that all the offences were the work of one man and that man was Levi Bellfield."Mr Altman said: "Between October 2001 and August 2004, five women - four of them young women aged between 17 and 22 - were violently attacked."Two of these young women were brutally murdered by being battered about the head with a blunt instrument."One young woman survived a horrific attack on her when she was driven at and run over. Another woman suffered a nasty injury when she was struck on the head. Another woman survived attack without injury."Mr Altman said the attacks began in October 2001 when the defendant emerged from a car and approached Ms Rennie."She was declining the defendant's invitation to go with him. He physically picked her up from the ground and sought to drag her to the car from which he had emerged," he said. "She was fortunate enough to escape injury."Ms McDonnell was attacked in February 2003 when she left a bus near a stop close to her home in Hampton after an evening out with friends."She was struck on the back of the head with a blunt instrument as she approached the house. She died later in hospital," said Mr Altman.In December 2003, Irma Dragoshi was attacked at a bus stop in the village of Longford, near Heathrow airport.Mr Altman said: "The defendant got out of a vehicle and ran over. He attacked her by hitting her with a blunt instrument."Mrs Dragoshi has recovered but the injury left her with amnesia.Kate Sheedy was attacked in May 2004 as she was making her way home after an evening out with friends.Mr Altman said: "She got off a bus in Isleworth. She became suspicious of a people carrier vehicle which was stationary in front of her."In order to avoid that car from which she felt threatened, she crossed over the road. Suddenly but very deliberately, the waiting people carrier moved, turned at speed and drove towards her."It ran her over in the mouth of the side turning, causing her massive injuries from which she survived, albeit that she remains scarred mentally and physically."The final alleged victim was Amelie Delagrange, who was attacked in August 2004 in Twickenham.She had spent the evening with friends. Mr Altman said: "She took a bus home and missed her stop."She was walking up Hampton Road. As she was crossing Twickenham Green, she was attacked and hit over the head with a blunt instrument. She died from her injuries."Mr Altman said there was direct evidence linking Mr Bellfield to the attacks on Anna-Maria Rennie and Irma Dragoshi and "compelling" circumstantial evidence linking him to the other three crimes.The prosecutor said: "He denies that he is responsible for any or all of these offences. It is his case that if they were committed by the same man, it is not him, or if they were committed by different men, he was not one of them."The trial continues.