James is 12 years old. His dad has been in and out of jail for most of those years, and his mother is heavily medicated to control her clinical depression and anxiety attacks. James is bright but difficult, angry at the world, uncooperative with teachers and social workers, to the extent that he has now been excluded from school. Instead he wanders the streets of his housing estate, the devil of boredom finding work for his idle hands. He has never been violent, but he is undoubtedly a nuisance, with a string of arrests for vandalism, drunk and disorderly, and possession of cannabis. Last year the local authority obtained an Asbo against him, obliging James to be home after 8pm each evening. Today he was picked up by police at 10pm – the third time he has been caught in breach of his order, meaning he goes automatically back to court.James is not a real boy, but he is an accurate composite of the 572 young offenders aged 14 or less highlighted by Barnardo's in their report Locking Up or Giving Up? revealing the barbaric truth about our approach to child criminals in England and Wales – an approach that sees us locking up more children than any country in Europe bar the Russian Federation and Ukraine. Our use of child custody has increased five-fold over the past decade, at a time when rates of serious crime by children have remained roughly constant.  How should we respond to cases like James? What should happen next? Typically, James would be given a detention and training order (DTO), in other words a custodial sentence, for around four months. The cost to the taxpayer would be over £60,000. For that money, James's school could have educated him separately for a full year with a specialist tutor supported by educational psychologists and the pick of any other professionals deemed necessary. Or that £60,000 could pay for more than two years of specialist respite fostering, providing a safe second home and family where James could develop secure attachments, lose his bad habits, learn better ones – an intervention with extensive, proven effectiveness. That £60,000 could also be enough to establish and support a modest community youth centre for a year, a place where James and many others like him could go to divert them from getting into trouble in the first place. If we prefer to focus resources on the children at greatest need, it would go a long way towards funding the types of life-changing programmes provided by the Prince's Trust or Barnardo's themselves. Or, if we were incredibly short-sighted and stupid, we could send James to a harsh, impersonal institution, for a period too short to offer any realistic prospect of rehabilitation, but long enough to leave him more brutalised, bitter and traumatised than ever. The known reoffending rate of those who have served a DTO is nearly 80% – making it the least effective intervention across the entire criminal justice system. The chances of reoffending actually increase according to how young the child is when first detained, and how often he or she has been detained. So this option would appear to be the worst of all possible worlds. It makes no sense to bleeding-heart liberals (hands up) who believe in rehabilitation of offenders and the potential for change. It will make little sense to the hang 'em and flog 'em brigade, who still think of custodial institutions as "holiday camps". There is however, one crucial exception. The current system does make perfect financial sense to local authority executives and accountants. All the preventative solutions outlined above, and many other alternatives, would have to be paid for by councils out of council tax. The costs of juvenile detention are met centrally by Jack Straw's Ministry of Justice. So while everyone, as tax payers, as victims of crime, and of course the young offenders themselves would be better served by prophylactics than punishment, councils have little financial incentive to prevent these custodial sentences becoming necessary. One solution proposed by Barnardo's is that local authorities foot the bill for youth custody, thus giving them an incentive to opt for prevention. This makes sense, assuming that national government make up the budget shortfall through central funding. Barnardo's estimate that at least £27.5m could be saved each year if custodial sentences were reserved for children who commit serious and violent crimes. If that money were reinvested in preventative approaches, the savings and benefits would be immeasurable. There was a time when New Labour liked to talk about "joined up government". The current approach to juvenile justice is about as joined up as a plate of macaroni.