A murder inquiry was launched yesterday after a teenager was killed and another injured when two balaclava-wearing gunmen opened fire on a group of four young friends.Officers were called to parkland in Plaistow, east London, at about 3.20am after reports that two teenagers had suffered gunshot wounds. The victim, believed to be 16 and named locally as Sammy Adelagun, was pronounced dead at the scene. A second teenager, believed to be 15, was taken to hospital where his condition was said to be stable.Detectives from the Metropolitan police's Trident unit, which tackles gun-related crime within the black community, are investigating the death.Next of kin had been informed, police said, and no arrests had yet been made. There were suggestions that at least one of the youths may also have been stabbed.One neighbour, who asked not to be named, said that she heard a loud banging on the door of a house in Chesterton Road and the sound of people running up and down stairs. "It was a huge commotion," she said.Annie Smith, 77, of Howards Road, which backs on to the parkland, said: "I heard two males shouting, then I went back to sleep. Then I heard three or four bangs. I thought it could be fireworks, but it may have been shots. I then heard somebody shouting and someone answer faintly. They are just kids, why were they out so late?"The police said that 16 teenagers had been killed in London this year, five of them shot. In June the Mayor of London, Boris Johnson, launched an initiative to tackle gang-related violence by recruiting male role models to mentor young boys from troubled backgrounds.Two youths, who gave their names as "Nasty" and "Deano", said gang violence was common in the area. "It's just a way of life around here," one said.In 2007, 15-year-old Adam Regis, the nephew of former Olympic sprint champion John Regis, was stabbed to death in Plaistow and a 19-year-old man was seriously wounded in a shooting.Odia Wabenga, of nearby Florence Road, said: "A friend of mine called me just now and told me a young boy had been shot dead. It is shocking. A year ago a boy was stabbed around here. I have a young son who is nine, and I feel very bad if things start changing like this, it's no good." She added: "It's very sad, I thought of the parents. You do hear about gun conflict and teenagers killing each other for no reason."Another local resident, Mohammad Chowdury, added: "It's very shocking, normally nothing like this happens around this area. I have been living here for 20 years and we've had no trouble."Wendy Barrett, who also lives near the scene of the shooting, said: "I am absolutely devastated, I cannot imagine what his mother must be feeling this morning."Flowers had been laid at the scene yesterday paying tribute to "Sammy, one of the realist Young Bucks gone but not forgotten, 100% loved Liam."