The police chief who gave the order that led to Jean Charles de Menezes being shot dead said yesterday that she was told five times that surveillance officers believed the man they were following was a terrorist suspect.Commander Cressida Dick told a jury deciding whether "catastrophic errors" by Scotland Yard amount to a criminal offence that the Brazilian's suspicious behaviour contributed to her decision to order officers to "stop" him. That behaviour included him being nervous and agitated, texting, talking on a mobile phone and getting on and off a bus.Ms Dick was giving evidence in the Metropolitan police's defence at the Old Bailey, where they deny one charge of breaching health and safety law.Mr De Menezes was shot dead on July 22 2005 after being mistaken for Hussain Osman, who was suspected of attempting to bomb an underground train the previous day. Ms Dick was in command of an operation that day involving surveillance of 21 Scotia Road in south London, believed to be linked to Mr Osman. An armed special branch surveillance team outside the communal block were unable to tell which flat people were emerging from.Some people left but were not followed, but Mr De Menezes was tailed when he left just after 9.30am. He caught a bus to Brixton station, which was closed, then got a bus back to Stockwell underground station.Ms Dick said at first he had been both identified and also ruled out as being the suspect Osman, who was given the codename "Nettletip". She said the confidence of the surveillance team that the man was the suspected terrorist had grown by the time he reached Stockwell.Assisting her in the control room was an officer monitoring what surveillance teams on the ground were saying: "What I heard from him, he was really reasserting to me that the team believed it was Nettletip. I now had three different occasions when the surveillance monitor and one from [the] silver [commander] and again after that; they're certain, that's Nettletip, which made me think they had a firmer identification than at Brixton tube. They really believed it was him."Ms Dick explained the factors behind her order that the subject be "stopped". The first factor was the surveillance team's repeated belief that the man was a terrorist suspect they were hunting. She added: "Secondly, from the behaviours described to me - nervousness, agitation, sending text messages, [using] the telephone, getting on and off the bus, all added to the picture of someone potentially intent on causing an explosion."Earlier that morning Ms Dick had been shown CCTV video of a man who had attempted to bomb a tube train the previous day, and had seen pictures of him entering Stockwell station. This too, she said, was a factor: "Then, of course, added to that, this person was coming off a bus and going down the same tube station that the bomber I'd seen on the video had entered the day before."Ms Dick, in police uniform, said she kept in mind that the identification could be wrong, but said she had to order the man be stopped before entering the tube.A highly trained firearms team was out of place when Ms Dick first ordered the stop, as Mr De Menezes was seconds away from Stockwell tube. That meant Ms Dick first ordered what she said were "inadequately" trained special branch officers to carry out the stop: "I believed it was so important he should not proceed on the tube, where he might detonate a bomb or we might lose surveillance."She said her order stood for barely a second as she was told CO19 officers had arrived. They hurtled down the escalator after the man they wrongly believed was a terrorist suspect. Moments later Mr De Menezes was shot by police.Ms Dick continues her evidence today.