A 15-year-old boy died in a hail of bullets in a park in Moss Side, Manchester, because he refused to give in to threats from local thugs and join a gang, his mother said yesterday.Speaking at the inquest into the death of Jessie James, who was killed in the early hours of September 9 last year, Barbara Reid said: "Jessie disrespected the gang. That's why they killed him."She said Jessie was confronted three weeks before his death and told that he had to join either the Gooch or Doddington gangs in Moss Side, where he had lived all his life."They wanted him to take sides but Jessie didn't want that," Ms Reid told the court. "They laid it blatantly to him that 'there are two sides where you live'. They said to him, 'Choose'. He said he didn't want to, he wanted to be everyone's friend."They said, 'If you don't take sides, there is going to be enough blood around here'. Three weeks later, Jessie was a dead man."Earlier, Ms Reid had read two personal statements with a dignity and clarity that gripped the hearing. As she sat down, her daughter Rose gave her a thumbs-up sign."Little did I know the gangs made Jessie's life a living hell," said Ms Reid. "He was cornered, pointed out and intimidated at every conceivable opportunity. He was compelled and coerced to join the gang time and time again until his death. Jessie humiliated the gangsters to their face by saying no ... This infuriated the gang and because they could not stand Jessie's rejection, they killed him ... [Jessie] was shot repeatedly and left to die alone like an animal."Ms Reid said he had been doing well at school and hoped to be an electrician. "Jessie was a very kind, compassionate, energetic, humorous and loving child. He had a heart of gold. He had a happy, loving, bubbly personality. He had an infectious smile. Even in death he was smiling."Ms Reid described Jessie as tall, slender and handsome, a fitness fanatic, a "Prince Charmer", "a gentle giant and a lion cub who loved life"."He brought joy and laughter to everyone he came into contact with. A brave, courageous boy, he would tackle any mountain in the name of peace. Jessie was love and was indeed loved by everyone," she said."He was like a magnet. He drew people from all walks of life. He was simply the best. I had no fear for Jessie's safety because to me a humble, likeable boy like Jessie had no enemy."Now that he was dead, there was an empty void in her heart, she said. "Jessie was snatched from me without even saying goodbye. Justice is what I seek and justice is my utmost desire."She agreed with the Manchester coroner, Nigel Meadows, that there was "a wall of silence" about the murder in Moss Side. People had come to her with information but would not go to the police to make a statement, she said."The fact that they will not stand up and denounce this evil in our community shows they have accepted it as a way of life ... I hope Jessie's death will be a watershed and that he will not have died in vain."Ms Reid also said she was disappointed with Greater Manchester police. "I think they can do more than they are doing. They need to reach the people, they are so standoffish." She would be "delighted" to go to a community meeting with the police to bridge the gap.Mr Meadows fined a witness who failed to appear at Monday's hearing, and was arrested and held in custody overnight. The witness was ordered to pay £25 to a charity of Ms Reid's choice.The inquest continues today.