When Sir Robert Mark, one of the most highly regarded of Britain's former senior police officers, was appointed to the post of commissioner of the Metropolitan police in 1972 with the job of cleaning up a discredited force, he was very soon made aware of how unwelcome he was among his colleagues. "I felt rather like the representative of a leper colony attending the annual garden party of a colonial governor," he wrote later. In his autobiography he recalled his lonely thoughts as he tried to rid the force of corrupt detectives and identified himself with Hamlet, quoting the lines: "The time is out of joint/ O cursed spite that ever I was born to set it right." This week, with the lonely death, apparently suicide, of Mike Todd, the chief constable of Greater Manchester police, we have been reminded again that, beneath the silver braid and the braggadocio, away from the camaraderie of "the job" and the closed ranks of the service, life at the top of the police can be finally unbearable. No one knows precisely what it was - whether personal or professional or a combination of both - that drove the man who was believed by many to be the likeliest next commissioner of the Met to take his life. There has been much speculation in the press over his many personal relationships; even rumours that a large story about his private life was about to break. But he was far from being the only senior officer in recent years to have felt the pressure. In fact, many now wonder if the role has become intolerable, with media scrutiny of their every move now part of the job.Mark survived his time in office, despite the chilly welcome he initially received, and despite having to clean out the Yard of its corrupt officers. (He went on to become known for his GoodYear tyres catchphrase: "I'm convinced they're a major contribution to road safety.") One of the reasons he did so, perhaps, was that he did not have to deal with the countless pressures that now accompany the top policing jobs. Times have certainly changed.Thirty years after Mark's frank memoir, another former Met commissioner published his autobiography with a title that could seem like a rebuke to any officer who might find the role too stressful. Not For The Faint-hearted was what John Stevens - now Lord Stevens - called the account of his five years in the post, and certainly it is hard to imagine Stevens deciding to end it all on a windswept mountain in Wales. But Stevens, at the end of his autobiography, does acknowlege that, compared with many of his contemporaries, he had had the breaks. "Looking back, I realise how exceptionally fortunate I have been. Robust health and an inexhaustible fund of energy are gifts from God worth more than gold ... I know that sometimes I could have done a lot better - perhaps I did not drive an investigation as hard as I might have, or did not show enough compassion - and I regret those patches of poor performance." Since then, of course, he has rarely been off the public stage, whether investigating corruption within football or investigating the death of Princess Diana.But what kind of a person seeks the most senior police office, and how well equipped are they to deal with what will be thrown at them?Robert Reiner, in his lengthy academic study Chief Constables, suggested that those who held the post fell into four main categories: the Baron, the Bobby, the Boss and the Bureaucrat. The Baron tended to be middle-class and to have a view of society that was paternalistic and hierarchical. The Bobby had no regrets about his lack of higher education and was essentially "the bobby on the beat promoted to the highest job". The Boss did not suffer criticism gladly and regarded his job as that of a fire-fighter when "even the best policing amounts to a Canute-like holding operation". And the Bureaucrat was the "favoured Home Office flavour" for large cities, able to handle the increasing demands from central government. One of the problems for the current men and women at the top is that they are often now expected to be a mixture of all four types: to be, in effect, baronial, bureacratic, bossy bobbies.As one of Reiner's anonymous chief constables interviewed for the book told him: "The difficulty about being a chief constable really is that people place you in impossible positions. They ask you questions; if you fail to answer, you are arrogant and unaccountable; if you do answer, you are political."Policing, of course, is just another area of British life that has experienced the end of the age of deference. Fifty years ago, the media would not have dreamed of inquiring into the private life of a police chief who was otherwise seen as doing a good job. Now everything they do can be examined: from extramarital affairs to detection rates, their sexuality to their use of speed cameras. But neither, of course, would the media have pursued a princess at 70mph or offered money for unflattering pictures of a prince. The treatment of all public figures has changed dramatically in the past few decades and the police, like the royal family and anyone in the public eye, are now aware that the slightest peccadillo could lead both to calls to resign and to the intimate details of a private life being laid bare over breakfast. Just as some people now decide that a career in politics is not for them if it involves the constant risk of humiliation or public criticism, so some nearing the top of the police may make the decision that they would be better off taking the handsome pension available to them after 30 years of service than run the risk of smear or sneer. Where once a senior officer, suppported by his local authority, could safely ignore the publicity, now that option is no longer available. One of Todd's former colleagues said yesterday of the pressures on top police officers: "Nowadays there is nowhere to hide. You are under constant scrutiny not just on what has happened yesterday but, because of the Freedom of Information Act, on anything you have ever done. There is a very difficult balancing act between keeping the confidence of your own officers and doing what the public or the local authority wants of its police. There is constant pressure - on crime figures, on particular types of crime - and a constant feeling that no one will ever be satisfied, whatever it is you do. There are training courses and media courses that can help you but in the end it's about the network that you build around yourself and how strong that is. There are times when it really is quite bleak."His view is backed up by the Police Foundation, the organisation that looks at policing in all its different aspects. "It is very difficult for a police officer to stand up and say, 'I can't cope, I need support'," said John Graham, the foundation's director, yesterday. "There is not really the kind of structure within the police service to help someone do that." He said that, whereas a social worker would be able to call on support and counselling after, say, the death of a child in care, it was harder within the police for such support to be found. There was also a culture of self-reliance that might make it hard for anyone to seek help, in case it was seen as a sign of weakness."Also the demands of policing have changed and they are now all under quite considerable pressure," said Graham. But he felt that some relished the top jobs in the service and that it might well be those lower down who felt powerless, but who also faced pressures, who were most at risk. Many senior officers have left before their time was up. In 2000, Andrew Timpson, then the chief constable of Warwickshire, left after an investigation found that he was suffering from a sever depressive disorder. He had been seen to be acting irrationally and showing signs of mood swings. Other chief constables have faced different challenges. Maria Wallis resigned early in 2006 from her post as the chief constable of Devon and Cornwall after pressures both profession and personal. She had been seen as one of the highest flyers in the British police only four years earlier. Equally, some have acted bizarrely but managed to remain in their jobs. Sir James Anderton, who was Todd's predecessor in the Manchester job from 1975 to 1991, famously came under pressure after he became known as "God's copper" because of his oft-stated religious views and his suggestion that Aids sufferers were "swirling in a cesspit of their own making". Anderton survived in what was perhaps a gentler climate.Much more recently, the chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI), Sir Hugh Orde, another potential Met commissioner, has had a relationship and fathered a child with a detective to whom he was not married. There was extensive media coverage at the time but it passed swiftly and Orde weathered the storm. He may yet win the top job should he want it. The Metropolitan police is, however, the place of greatest pressure - as the current incumbent, Sir Ian Blair, discovered last year. He was the subject of what seemed at the time like an unstoppable level of criticism - some of it from this paper - both in the wake of his handling of the death of Jean Charles de Menezes in Stockwell in 2005 and over the way he answered questions about when and how he knew about it."Man Without Honour - Despite De Menezes Guilty Verdict Met Chief REFUSES to Quit" was a typical front-page headline from the Daily Mail, which listed "Five years of Blair blunders" inside. It wasn't just De Menezes: it was a series of embarrassments, all professional, and the fact that he was never really regarded as a "copper's copper". There was a period when every day there was either a call for Blair's resignation, or the suggestion that he was only a step away from letting the home secretary know that he was off to pick up his pension. In the end, Blair sat it out, not least thanks to the backing of the London mayor, Ken Livingstone. Now the calls have pretty much disappeared and it is generally accepted that he will see out his full term before handing over to - well, no one quite knows, in light of the death of Todd. But the Met did not escape unscarred from the scrutiny over the death of De Menezes. Eventually it was assistant commissioner Andy Hayman who fell on his truncheon and quit the force after his personal life came under the spotlight. Hayman at the time admitted that one of the reasons for departing was the effect, on his family, of the continuing criticism. He clearly felt that he had been left out to dry, as can be seen form his resignation speech. "This role requires total commitment in both time and effort and has a considerable impact on your personal life, your family and friends," he said as he left. "It also puts you in the spotlight, often in ways that are very hurtful. Recent weeks have seen a series of leaks and unfounded accusations about me, which I have and will continue to refute strongly. However, these events take their toll on you personally and I feel now is the right time for me to step aside and for a new person to take over." Someone who understands the strain of being a senior cop in the Met is now running for what is an even higher-profile job. At least Brian Paddick, the Lib Dems' candidate for mayor of London, will be under no illusion that running for office carries with it sometimes intolerable pressures. Paddick was the country's most senior openly gay police officer and, as such, he had to take all the flak that went with it. Paddick, however, made sure that he was not going to be a soft target and when the press took an unwarranted intrusion into his private life, he successfully sued. He will now spill the beans on what it is like to be at the centre of a media storm as a senior police officer when he publishes his autobiography next week. It is apppropriately entitled Line of Fire - the autobiography of Britain's most controversial policeman. But even Paddick would admit that policing at the top is more fraught now than it has ever been.Thirty years ago, in his book One Policemam's Story, E St Johnston wrote: "It has been said that, in operational matters, a chief constable is answerable to God, his Queen, his conscience and to no one else." But those days have changed. Now a chief constable is answerable not only to a home secretary or a local authority, but also to the local and national radio stations, the national press, the Freedom of Information Act, and the civil suit. God and the Queen are the least of his or her problems. When someone appears to have taken their own lives, there is always an attempt to attribute that final decision to some specific emotion - shame, fear of exposure, guilt, embarrassment, grief - prompted by some specific event. In reality, there may be myriad reasons why someone feels that living is more painful than dying, regardless of how much they may regret hurting the people they leave behind. We can speculate but we will never really know what was going through Mike Todd's mind on Monday as he headed off up Snowdon. But he will not be the last senior police officer to face a personal abyss.