Civil rights campaigners yesterday accused the home secretary of abusing his political power with his new draconian sentencing proposals released this week. The Bar Council described his moves to force the courts to stiffen prison sentences for murders as "constitutionally a leap in the dark". Even more vividly, it accused him of trying to "institutionalise the grip of the executive around the neck of the judiciary". What David Blunkett is proposing will wreak serious damage on the criminal justice system, but it is not unconstitutional. It will interfere with judicial discretion, but as Professor Andrew Ashworth of Oxford University has documented, the doctrine that sentencing policy should be left to the judges is a 20th-century development with no constitutional base.Traditionally, sentencing policy was laid down by parliament and implemented by the judiciary. It was only when parliament began removing minimum sentences in the 19th century that the judiciary moved into the vacuum. It was a vacuum they were ill-equipped to fill for many decades. They were not in touch with researchers or practitioners of the criminal justice system. Now a home secretary, who keeps demonstrating his ignorance of criminal justice research, is seeking to push the pendulum back into parliament's hands. It has been prompted by the worst of motives: retaliation for the succession of court rulings that have whittled away the home secretary's powers to determine the length of time individual life-sentenced prisoners serve. The courts were right to cut these back. The power was in breach of the European convention on human rights, which insists on offenders being sentenced by independent and impartial courts. But though politicians do not have a right to determine individual sentences, they do have a right to establish a sentencing framework. This is what David Blunkett will set before parliament next week. But instead of approaching such a serious issue in a calm and rational manner, he has instead, in the words of a fellow Labour MP, Graham Allen, indulged in "macho posturing". The three tiers he is proposing for different categories of murder - "whole life", 30-year minimum, 15-year minimum - double several of the lengths proposed by the lord chief justice. Mr Blunkett says his plan will win public support. But the criminal justice system was set up to lift justice above mob rule, lynch law and blood feuds. Mr Blunkett says judges have failed to provide clear and consistent sentencing. True, but his new principles will be just as contradictory. Why should a killer of a police or prison officer face a minimum of 30 years, but not a killer of a nurse, social worker or probation officer? His "life means life" for a long list of offences (multiple murders, abduction killings, sexual, sadistic or terrorist killings) ignores the degree to which such sentences put prison staff at risk when prisoners have nothing to lose. His minimum of 15 years for all other murders ignores the needs for clemency in mercy killings. Is he really happy to see medics or relatives, who help incurable patients with excruciating pain to die, serving 15 years? Mr Blunkett's rigid categories will produce a string of injustices because of the wide variety of special circumstances that judges should be allowed to take into account. Worse still, it will ratchet up sentences on lesser offences, making a nonsense of his drive to halt the rise in the prison population. The UK already has more lifers than the rest of the European Union combined. Parliament should reject the package.