A car dealer accused of threatening a 13-year-old boy after incidents involving unruly youths walked free from court yesterday after being cleared.Christopher Fulke-Greville, 53, of Addlestone, Surrey, hailed the decision as a victory for common sense after being cleared of two charges of intimidating a youth. Mr Fulke-Greville claimed he had suffered months of antisocial behaviour from a "notorious" gang of youths close to his home. The incidents, he said, included having eggs thrown at his property, a window broken and vehicles damaged by a group of about 15 teenagers. He was convicted of assault this year after admitting headbutting a teenage boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, when Mr Fulke-Greville confronted a group of children who he said had been throwing rocks close to the M25 motorway. While Mr Fulke-Greville was awaiting trial on that charge he encountered the 13-year-old. The boy claimed in court that Mr Fulke-Greville threatened to come around to his house early one morning and blow it up. But the father of two told the jury that he had spoken to the boy only after receiving a tirade of abuse from the complainant as he entered a petrol station. Mr Fulke-Greville said he threatened to call the police and have an antisocial behaviour order placed on the boy, who also cannot be named for legal reasons. The boy also claimed that Mr Fulke-Greville threatened him two days later by rolling down the window of his car and accusing him of being a "grass", allegedly adding: "When you stand up in court everyone will know who you are." Mr Fulke-Greville denied he had been in the area at the time and produced evidence that was in London at a car auction. After being cleared by a jury at Guildford crown court yesterday he said: "I just wanted the truth to come out even though I laid myself open." Mr Fulke-Greville has more than 20 previous convictions for offences of dishonesty as well as his recent assault conviction. He told reporters yesterday that he was appealing against the latter conviction, even though he had completed 80 of the 180 hours of community service to which he was sentenced.