The parents of a British man stabbed to death during the Euro 2004 football championships have said they are "devastated" by the leniency of the 13-year sentence imposed on his killer by a Portuguese court.Stephen Smith, a 28-year-old Wolverhampton Wanderers supporter, died in June after being stabbed in the heart as he sat in a bar near Rossio Square in Lisbon. Yesterday, Vadym Abramov, a Ukrainian pickpocket, was convicted of "simple homicide" at Lisbon criminal court. Mr Smith's father, John, said the family was angry that Abramov been not been found guilty of the more serious offence of aggravated murder, and feared he could be released after serving little more than half the 13 year sentence. Mr Smith, of Bushbury, Wolverhampton, learned of the sentence from a solicitor who attended the proceedings. "I am really offended by the leniency," he said. "I feel my son's life is worth more than 13 years - possibly six years with time off for good behaviour." "When I heard the sentence I was very angry for obvious reasons: my son has not had justice at the end of the day. My son didn't deserve to die and he certainly didn't deserve to find that the guy that stabbed him through the heart in a totally callous and cold-blooded way should walk away in maybe six or seven years. He added: "The attack was unprovoked. My son was just sitting having a drink with his friends. It was a cowardly offence and the sentence should have been a lot longer." His wife, Diane, added: "We are devastated. "We expected him [Abramov] to be found guilty of aggravated murder and get a sentence of up to 25 years. "If this man had got a 25-year sentence it wouldn't have been enough, but at least justice would have been served as much as it could have been." It is understood that after Abramov's eventual release, he will be expelled from Portugal and prevented from returning to the country for a minimum of 10 years. A fund launched by the Smith family in Stephen's memory has so far raised more than £17,000 for Wolverhampton's New Cross hospital. Relatives and friends hope to collect £21,000 to buy an incubator for the hospital's neo-natal unit.