He was one of Britain's more colourful crooks, a playboy drug-trafficker who once escaped from prison using a cup of tea as his cover. But the career of Colin Nobes has come to an unglamorous end with the discovery of his rotting corpse under a Spanish motorway bridge.Spanish police have charged two British men with his murder, and a British woman was due to give evidence to an investigating magistrate yesterday in the resort of Denia, eastern Spain, in connection with the case.Nobes escaped from Winchester jail in 1995 after offering to fetch a cup of tea for a prison warder. He went on to lead a playboy lifestyle funded by his shares in Spanish sex clubs. Spanish police were yesterday investigating his activities during the past few years.His decomposed corpse was discovered under a motorway bridge at Ondara, not far from Denia, last Wednesday. The site is used by locals as an illegal tipping spot for rubbish. Police originally suspected that the body, which had been covered over with a plastic sheet, bits of rubbish and the remains of a wardrobe, belonged to a vagrant. It had been there for at least two months. But they soon found evidence of murder and Nobes was identified through a DNA test.A civil guard spokesman in Alicante said yesterday that a local judge had refused police permission to talk about the case.Nobes scaled Winchester prison's walls four months before he was due to be released from an 18-month sentence to join his wife, Yvonne, for her 40th birthday party in the resort of Denia."The Spanish police can't touch me and neither can the British," he later claimed. "I've got lots of millionaire friends and we have a great time together." He boasted that he had bought himself a luxury yacht.Nobes claimed at the time that he could enter and leave Britain "at will", and that he had even invited Portsmouth police to visit him in Spain. He was finally extradited to Britain, however, to serve the rest of his sentence.He was booked back into prison by the same officer he had offered to get a hot drink three years before, who greeted him with the words: "You've forgotten my tea, Nobes." "Sorry about that sir," he replied.While on the run, he had been pursued by police in Spain, Germany and the Czech Republic.Spanish customs officers once accused him of trying to ram their launch and dumping four tonnes of cannabis, worth £27m, overboard during an hour-long sea chase. Although Spanish police had fired warning shots to stop his boat and he was sent to jail to await trial, a court eventually released Nobes, saying there was insufficient evidence against him.Police in the Czech Republic had more luck, getting him jailed for a year in 1997 after he punched a hotel porter in Ostrava while trying to leave the premises in the small hours of the morning without paying his £3,000 bill. He had previously skipped out of a hotel in Brno after four days during which he painted the town red. Nobes later wrote to the Ostrava hotel owner, claiming that hotel staff had tried to abduct him, and signed the letter: "Yours very angrily."He was then extradited from the Czech Republic to Britain, flying first class and feasting on smoked salmon and halibut.German police had also tried to extradite him for trial on charges of credit card fraud. After completing his sentence in Britain, Nobes returned to Spain and continued to live a champagne lifestyle in Denia.A former dealer in stolen boats and cars in the Portsmouth area, he was believed to have become involved in drug-trafficking.In Britain Nobes served prison sentences for handling a stolen motor cruiser and for delivering stolen cars to the Channel Islands.A spokesman for the British embassy in Madrid said yesterday: "We are assisting the next of kin."He confirmed that Britons Lindsey Slade, 39, from Birmingham, and Adrian Marshall, 46, from Newcastle upon Tyne, had been charged with Nobes's murder. A British woman, Bridget Stokes, was due to give evidence to an investigating magistrate yesterday, the embassy spokesman said. A fourth Briton had been arrested but released without charges.Nobes had been assaulted before, with a British man attacking with a hammer while he was on the run in the 1990s.No date has yet been set for a trial.