So ministers are asking us all which Britons currently detained in prison should get the right to vote in elections. Are they saintly, mad or simply responding to pressure from the European court of human rights?A bit of all three, perhaps, and the idea seems to have provoked diametrically opposing responses. One, trumpeted by the Daily Beast, is that ministers are hopeless softies to allow any such thing, the other that they are brutes to impose all but minimal restrictions on men and women who remain our fellow citizens, even inside the slammer.At one level this is the stuff of sitcoms (imagine an election episode of Porridge) and of cartoons. "I think he's gone to register as a voter," says one cartoon today which shows two prison officers confronting a hole in a cell floor.At another level it is deadly serious and, as you may have suspected, arises from an ECHR ruling in 2004 that Britain is wrong to impose any blanket ban on prisoners having the vote. Too sweeping, said the court, which (I stress yet again) is nothing to do with the EU. It is much older.What Michael Wills, Jack Straw's sidekick in the Ministry of Justice, has done to generate headlines this week is to issue a second consultation paper on how best to square the ECHR (which is basically a good thing) with Britain's own outlook and habits.Why? Because the paper his department issued in 2007 produced what is politely called "heavily polarised" replies, some 88 in all, half from the public, the rest from interested groups. Some 47% replied yes to the broad proposition, 25% no, and the rest were in between.My instinct on spotting the latest headlines was to wonder if Labour wasn't devising means of extending the franchise in the hope of up to 29,000 grateful prisoners might vote for G Brown next year."Franchise fiddling always rebounds," I murmured – for instance when Harold Wilson lowered the voting age from 21 to 18 in 1970, the year I first voted at the ripe old age of 24 and a half.But my suspicions were wholly wrong. Ministers accepted the ECHR ruling in the John Hirst case reluctantly, making it clear they thought it wrong. Hirst killed his widowed landlady with an axe in 1979 after she asked him to bring in some coal.But his reportedly violent character was channelled into a fascination with the law. Now out of prison, his threat to seek judicial review if ministers continued to drag their feet on the ECHR case may have triggered action.So Wills's tone is wary. As you may know, he is offering four basic options: giving the vote (with specified exceptions) to the 6,700 current prisoners serving less than one year; to the additional 7,200 serving one to two years; to the 14,900 serving two to four years; or to the latter category only if they actively apply to a judge for the vote.When the UN weighed into this issue last year SocietyGuardian set out the background. Britain's blanket denial, which dates from the 1870 Forfeiture Act, is shared by eight other European states, including Russia and Romania.France and Spain are among those leaving the decision to the sentencing judge – as part of the sentence. That's part of Wills's option paper too. Should a judge or parliament decide such a symbolic matter? Ministers are adamant that those serving more than four years, including lifers and dangerous "post-tarriff" detainees should not get voting rights. As usual much of the devilry is in the detail. What about those detained under mental health restrictions? What about those convicted of election fraud (no votes for them, ministers say)? Should it be a case-by-case decision, or determined chiefly by length of sentence?Back in cartoonist country, where exactly would a prisoner be registered to vote? At Wormwood Scrubs South constituency? Belmarsh Central? Or at the place where they last lived? And how would they vote? Clearly not in person, so post or proxy are the proposed options.The consultation paper even considers how civic-minded prisoners would get access to the democratic debate? Through radio and TV, plus candidates' campaign literature, it says.Having read the MoJ background material I find myself sympathetic to the proposition that those serving short sentences – many of whom should probably not be detained at all – should be allowed to vote.Perhaps their example of civic commitment would help inspire the rest of us to use our votes too.