Paul Whitehouse, the Chief Constable of Sussex who resigned last week after the intervention of Home Secretary David Blunkett, has called for a public inquiry into the events that led to him being forced out.Whitehouse, who is said to be furious that Blunkett went public with his views that he should leave his post before informing him, believes that he would be vindicated by a full investigation into the shooting of unarmed James Ashley by a policeman during a raid on his flat in January 1998. Ashley's family yesterday repeated their demands for a public inquiry and added that they wanted to see a change in the law to make it simpler to prosecute police. Ashley's brother Tony, 33, said: 'There has to be a public inquiry to help other people if this ever happens again and a change in the law so that officers won't get off in future.' He added that he was surprised that Whitehouse was also calling for an inquiry: 'He would be opening a can of worms in Sussex Police.' Norman Baker, Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman and White-house's constituency MP, last night joined the calls for a public inquiry. 'The family wants it,' he said, 'and I believe the chief constable and his senior officers would welcome a public inquiry. It would seem the only person who doesn't is David Blunkett.' He also criticised the Home Secretary's handling of the affair: 'There are serious questions that remain unanswered. Why did David Blunkett take action immediately when the previous Home Secretary did nothing? And why did he press the nuclear button over a disciplinary matter?' The Home Secretary this weekend mounted a robust defence of his position. 'People have to be prepared to make decisions', he told The Observer . 'I was very careful in approaching the police authority to indicate that it was their job to deal with the situation, but that I wanted to grasp the nettle and to deal with it after all the time that had elapsed.' It is thought that Whitehouse and his deputy, Mark Jordan, who authorised the raid, may mount a challenge under human rights legislation arguing that they have effectively been denied a fair trial. The Observer has also discovered that the previous Home Secretary, Jack Straw, had long been concerned about the performance of Sussex Police. It is thought that Home Office officials became seriously concerned about detection rates and the level of burglary and drug-related crime.