The humble-looking Tardis which aided Dr Who's intergalactic meanderings could be a solution to the police's public image, the Institute for Public Policy Research thinks.Its report also says that police stations should be made friendlier to the public, taking inspiration from the neat architecture of the Japanese police. They send out "the wrong messages about the attitudes and workings of the police", and they should be revamped to make them more accessible. "The police station feels more like a fortress or prison than a benefit to the community," the IPPR associate director Ben Rogers said. "There needs to be nothing short of a revolution in the design of police buildings." The institute praises the design history of the police, and says police stations could be "an effective symbol of security and public order", but concludes that many people consider them "intimidating or alienating". The study, Re-inventing the Police Station, recommends the police boxes that used to dot the country, the sort of mini-office immortalised as the exterior form of the Tardis. They were common from the 20s until the 60s, when the introduction of police personal radios made them redundant. Their main function had been to let beat officers and the public telephone the local station, as seen in films such as The Blue Lamp. A modern development occurs in Japan, where kiosks, called koban, are common, usually free-standing structures manned 24-hours a day by police officers. The IPPR says they provide a popular way of interacting with the local police. "They are a sort of half-way house between bobbies on the beat and big police stations. There have been trials of mobile police units, but we'd like to see the [the Home Office] go a stage further and set up a network of these kobans ." The study recommends police stations to hold open days, as fire stations do, and laments that few provided space for public meetings. The report says a fifth of police buildings are more than 70 years old. It adds: "At a time when people increasingly want personal and responsive services, police stations tend to remain intimidating or alienating places." Even aspects which might appeal to the public, such as horses and kennels, are hidden away. The Metropolitan police said there were no plans to reintroduce police boxes, but it has admitted in the past that police stations need to be overhauled for the new century.