Two of the leading detectives in the bungled Lawrence murder inquiry yesterday hit back at the criticism levelled at them in the Macpherson report. Former detective chief superintendent William Ilsley, in overall charge of the investigation, said the inquiry had scapegoated the police.  Former detective superintendent Ian Crampton, who headed the investigation for the first three days after Stephen's murder in April 1993, rejected criticism that he should have made arrests earlier. The pair chose to go on to BBC TV's Six O'Clock news to start their fightback. Mr Crampton rejected Sir William's judgment that the delay in arresting suspects was a 'fundamental error', saying he only had information, not evidence: 'I can't accept that because I feel, quite honestly, if I'd arrested over that weekend or earlier, I'd have still been sat in this chair answering criticisms.  'I would have been accused of ignoring the advice of a forensic expert, I would have been accused of bringing people in when I must have known their solicitor would have advised them to say nothing and I would have been accused of warning them, releasing them back into the very community that we were seeking help from.' Mr Ilsley supported his view: 'We've been made scapegoats. The key issue was the issue of early arrests. There is nothing at all in this investigation that has shown me that if we had done anything differently, we would have got a good result.' Mr Crampton also denied any suggestion that he had retired early to avoid disciplinary action: 'The fact of the matter is I retired two years before any complaint was made, without an inkling that there was going to be a complaint against me.' Mr Ilsley said that he could not reassure the Lawrence family that the investigation was competent: 'Right from the outset in this case, Stephen was identified as a good, decent, honest young man and that's what really upset me because no matter how much I tried to allay their fears, it didn't seem to work.' Many of his colleagues had told him: 'There but for the grace of God go I,' he said.  Mr Ilsley is now working in the private sector as a director of crisis management for the Kroll-O'Gara company. 