One of Britain's most experienced detectives is to become a commissioner in the Jamaican police as part of a deal struck by the government and authorities in the Caribbean.Detective Chief Superintendent Mark Shields will join the Jamaica constabulary force to lead a fightback against the crime and violence disfiguring the island. The appointment signals a move towards much closer cooperation between British and Jamaican police officers, who are 4,000 miles apart but nevertheless face the same problems of gang and drug violence, often involving the same individuals. Whereas British officers have previously been deployed to the Caribbean as advisers and to assist in specific investigations, Mr Shields, a senior officer in Scotland Yard's serious and organised crime central taskforce, will be given a formal position and will have Jamaican officers under his command. In a search for fresh perspectives and expertise the Jamaican authorities may also look to recruit officers from Britain and other countries. Mr Shields is being sent on long-term secondment and will be paid by the Jamaican authorities. His appointment follows discussions between Scotland Yard, the Foreign Office and Jamaica's ministry of national security. It is expected to be ratified in the next few weeks by the island's police service commission and to take effect on March 1. The officer, who is in Jamaica, was unavailable for comment. A Scotland Yard spokesman also declined to discuss the move. But Gilbert Scott, permanent secretary in the national security department in Kingston, said the officer's experience in dealing with crime gangs would be invaluable. He confirmed that Mr Shields would take the rank of assistant or deputy commissioner under the commissioner, Francis Forbes. "What we face is crime and criminals who are more organised on an international basis and are very sophisticated," Mr Scott said. "We already know that activities in London result in shockwaves in Jamaica and vice versa." By forging even closer links the police are mirroring a strategy already being followed by the gangs. It is known many fugitives from the Caribbean seek to hide out in the UK and fuel the drug trade in British cities. Their violence has no respect for boundaries. At one stage the theft of a pair of sunglasses in Jamaica set off a feud which led to 12 separate shootings and up to four deaths. The violence began in Jamaica but continued on London's streets. The initiative has political and economic implications in Jamaica, where the ruling People's National party is keen to reassure the tourist industry that action is being taken to reduce the high crime rate. Though much of the island is rural and peaceful, attacks in the big population centres have given Jamaica one of the highest murder rates in the world. There were 1,145 reported murders in 2004 and there have been accusations of extrajudicial killings by rogue police officers. Godfrey Dyer, president of the Jamaica Hotel and Tourist Association, said: "The level of crime has not yet affected the tourist industry but it is getting out of hand and affecting ordinary Jamaicans. "A year ago we said the government should get expert help and the government did not seem keen, but it is heartening they have chosen this path." For its part, the opposition Jamaican Labour party has said it will not oppose the move in principle, but will want assurances that Mr Shields and any other officers recruited will bring skills unavailable on the island. Officers from Scotland Yard, including Mr Shields, have assisted with big investigations on the island in the past, including the inquiry that followed the shooting of two women and two men during a police raid in 2003. They also assisted in the investigation that followed the alleged abduction of two men by police officers from the organised crime investigation division. In London Mr Shields has led operations against illegal gun manufacturers and contract killers.