Durham's police and crime commissioner (PCC), Ron Hogg, recently surprised everyone by proposing a drug policy reform that was politically courageous, practical and backed up by actual evidence of effectiveness. Didn't he get the memo?As we approach the first anniversary of the election of 41 newly created PCCs across England and Wales, it is time to look back on their first year and consider some of the more radical and creative ideas to have been dreamed up by our PCCs. Which ones put the blue into blue-sky thinking, and which should have been knocked on the head with a sturdy side-handle baton? Here are the top five of the worst, and the best, in reverse order.Criminally stupid5. Appointing a youth crime commissionerTo be fair to Ann Barnes, PCC in Kent, this wasn't the daftest idea on paper. However, appointing a teenager to such a role without first checking whether she had peppered her social media output with tweets that ended up being investigated amid claims they were homophobic and racist? Derp. Epic fail, as young Miss Paris Brown would doubtless have put it.4. Closing police stations and suggesting the public talk to police on Skype I don't know if Olly Martyns, PCC for Bedfordshire, has ever used Skype himself. If he had, perhaps he would share my concerns about conversations which go something like this: "Hello, I'd like to confess to a murd … hello, can you hear me? I can't hear you. I can see you, but I can't hear you … have I pressed the wrong button? Hang on let me try this one … can you hear me now? How about now? Damn now I'm looking at myself. Oh forget it."3. Blaming victims for sexual exploitationWhile concerns about grooming of children by street gangs were at their height this summer, North Yorkshire's PCC, Julia Mulligan, gave an interview to the Telegraph in which she explained her take on the problem. "If you look at some of the problems in my patch, the issue is around young teenagers, 14, sometimes younger, going out and getting drunk, and putting themselves in potentially very vulnerable situations. And that is a real issue. They are getting completely drunk so they are not in control anymore, which means that other people can exploit them and take control of them." Just in case there were any Guardian-reading feminists she had yet to alienate, Mulligan added for good measure that it was hard to recruit women police constables because "the idea of having to go out on the beat puts women off, I think".2. Sponsoring police cars and uniformsThe impressive PCC for Hertfordshire, David Lloyd, pulls off a spectacular double at the top of our stupid chart. First up is his proposal to sell advertising space to corporations, which wouldn't in any way compromise the impartiality and unimpeachable integrity of Hertfordshire constabulary. Oh no, sirree. That said, there may be a certain value to a notice on the inside of a cell saying "Had a nasty accident that wasn't your fault? Fallen down stairs or cracked your eye on an open door? Call Accident Helpline … "1. Charging arrested persons for their cell accommodationHere's Hertfordshire's David Lloyd again. This idea "is not the finished product yet" he admitted at the time, which may be understatement of the year. One presumes the arrangement would be much as with ambulances in parts of the US, which run a credit check before transporting you to hospital. "Sorry sonny, we were going to arrest you for GBH but you don't appear to have the funds available. Off you go then."Police intelligence5. Opening heroin consumption roomsWe have spent nearly 50 calamitous years treating drug addiction as a criminal justice matter rather than a social and medical problem. If Hogg's suggestion this week helps to shift policy towards a rational, pragmatic approach, it may almost make the whole experiment of elected police commissioners worthwhile.4. Investing criminal assets back into where they came fromWest Yorkshire's PCC, Mark Burns-Williamson, has launched a petition to persuade central government to change policy to ensure that when criminals' assets are seized, the funds are spent on community and anti-crime initiatives in the same areas where the crimes were committed – an eminently sensible and fair proposal.3. Volunteer complaints panelTo say the public has little faith in the Independent Police Complaints Commission would be an understatement. Several PCCs have now followed the example of Sue Mountstevens in Avon and Somerset, in allowing members of the public to volunteer to oversee and scrutinise the process of investigation of complaints against the police on behalf of the public.2. Introducing community crime fundsAs perhaps can be seen from some of the above, police and crime commissioners themselves don't always have the best ideas. Pretty much all PCCs appear to have launched their own community funds to which local projects, groups or even businesses can apply to develop and implement their own crime prevention ideas.1. Making it possible to sack commissionersIt is rather worrying that it took Greater Manchester's PCC, Tony Lloyd, to notice that he was basically untouchable and that this perhaps isn't entirely healthy. Panels should be able to initiate proceedings to recall police and crime commissioners who abuse their "extraordinary powers", he has argued, and who could disagree?So there we have ten ideas that show the best and worst of our police and crime commissioners. Could you do any better? Let us know in the comments section below.