Michael Howard will today step up the Conservative drive to put law and order at the heart of the emerging election campaign when he says that a Tory government would make prisoners serve the full sentence imposed by the courts.The former home secretary will take his fight to Tony Blair's Sedgefield constituency where he will promise to end early release schemes which allow prisoners remission of one-third to a half of their sentence for good conduct. The tough stance emerged as the Tories wobbled again over Mr Howard's support for Labour's identity card scheme, a decision which has dismayed both libertarians and Blair-baiters in the opposition ranks. "Well I think if [the card] is not going to work ... it's not worth supporting," the shadow home secretary, David Davis, told ITV's Jonathan Dimbleby show. Tory MPs may now be urged to abstain at the bill's Commons third reading on Thursday. Today the Tory leader will call current sentencing practices a "charade" that undermines respect for justice and reinforces "the decline in individual responsibility". Mr Howard will admit that some first-time offenders need only a caution or, in the case of drug addicts, rehabilitation. But his overall tone is: "Build more prisons and fewer criminals will be free to commit crime. It's common sense." His sentencing remedy, condemned by Labour and the Lib Dems, is less draconian than it first appears. Mr Howard would legislate to require judges to set a minimum and a maximum sentence. The minimum sentence would be served in full. But prisoners who behaved well and were deemed no longer to pose a danger to the public would be released at the end of the that period, a tariff reduction of around 20%. In another US-inspired move, sentencing guidelines would become subject to approval by the Commons home affairs select committee. Labour and the Liberal Democrats were quick to point out that the Tory policy would cost at least £700m at a time when Mr Howard is committed to tax and spending cuts.