Reviled as a child killer of unique horror, Myra Hindley's last words as she lay on her deathbed were revealed yesterday to be of love for her mother.A Roman Catholic priest who comforted Hindley as she lay dying said she had awoken from unconsciousness once in her final hours and spoken only of her deep affection for her mother, who had visited her frequently during her long sentence behind bars. Father Michael Teader became close to Hindley, 60, through his role as Roman Catholic chaplain at her last jail, Highpoint Prison, in Suffolk. He spent more than 20 hours with her after she had been given the last rites in her hospital bed. 'The last conversation she had before she died concerned her mother. She just expressed concern for her mother - but I will not say exactly what she said. She regained consciousness for only a very short time during the night on Thursday,' Teader said. Speaking outside his Victorian terraced house in Haverhill, Teader added: 'Myra has always, always ever since I have known her, expressed remorse and sorrow.' Teader said he had later telephoned Hindley's mother at her old peoples' home in the Manchester area to tell her of her daughter's final words. Hindley is likely to be cremated in a secret midnight service to avoid the attentions of the media and an angry public still horrified by her crimes. Home Office officials have spent the weekend in meetings with representatives of two police forces, the prison service and council officers in a bid to finalise plans for the funeral. Hindley's body remains under heavy police guard in the mortuary of West Suffolk Hospital and will not be moved until the last minute. A Cambridgeshire police spokesperson said: 'While details have not been finalised, it is expected that Myra Hindley will be cremated at Cambridge City Crematorium.'Suffolk Police had initially approached the West Suffolk Crematorium near Bury St Edmunds last year with a view to cremating Hindley's body there. This plan was abandoned when staff allegedly refused to allow such a service to take place. Staff at the Cambridge crematorium were also unhappy about taking on the ceremony but agreed if certain conditions were met. John Roebuck of Cambridge City Council, which manages the crematorium, said the decision had been made on humanitarian grounds: 'Everybody has the right to a proper funeral and in the case of Myra Hindley it has got to happen somewhere.' Before an operation for a brain aneurysm two years ago, Hindley drew up plans for her own funeral. She was understood to have given orders to her lawyers that she was not to be kept alive artificially if she lapsed into a coma. She also ordered that none of her organs should be offered for transplant if she died and gave instructions that her body should be cremated and her ashes scattered at a secret location. Just 12 people had been invited to attend the service including her mother, niece and brother-in-law. Others included Hindley's long-time solicitor Andrew McCooey, close friend Trish Forrester and her former lover, criminologist Nina Wilde. Although Hindley's own plans are still in place, police sources say they may have to be revised amid concerns over the cost of a mammoth security operation and public safety. 'There will be no big send-off,' said one officer. 'Feelings about her still run very high so all arrangements have to be carefully worked out. To leave it all to the very last minute would be a logistical nightmare. We want to ensure the whole thing doesn't turn into an attraction for ghouls. We will probably end up doing it in the middle of the night.' Hindley died after being re-admitted to hospital on Tuesday. Earlier this month she had suffered a suspected heart attack. The chain smoker had experienced ill-health for much of her 36 years behind bars, suffering from angina, suspected strokes and osteoporosis.