The Edlington attack in April last year has, of course, marked the lives of its victims most deeply. But they are not the only ones to suffer lasting damage.Sergeant Richard Vernon was the first police officer on the scene when the semi-conscious, blood-covered and half-naked form of the more seriously injured boy was found, lying face down in mud by a stream, freezing cold and near death.An officer for 22 years, Vernon says he finds it extremely hard to shake the image from his memory, even nine months later."It was the most distressing thing I've ever dealt with," he said earlier this week, standing in semi-wild parkland a few hundred metres from the scene. "It's still in my mind all the time. Whether I'm at home or at work it's always there. I'll be glad to put it behind me and move on."He joined the search for the boy after the younger victim, also badly hurt and in deep shock, staggered to nearby houses and raised the alarm.A resident, Ian Wright, found the eldest child first. He was followed a few seconds later by Vernon, 41, who covered the boy with his police jacket."I tried to keep him conscious, speaking to him, pinching his ear to keep him awake," said Vernon.The horror of the situation did not sink in immediately. "It hit me about 15 or 20 minutes afterwards, when the helicopter ambulance had landed and they were attending to the child. It hit home and I was in tears, I don't mind admitting that. I've got children of my own and you don't expect to come across a situation like that."The effect on Wright was similar. When the air ambulance arrived, the court was told, he was so distraught he sprinted blindly away from the scene through nearby trees, badly cutting his head on branches.The victims themselves have, prosecutors said, made a total physical recovery other than some remaining scars. But they both experience recurrent nightmares and anxiety.While the younger boy had less serious physical injuries he has suffered badly from guilt about leaving his friend at the scene. Previously well-behaved, he is now disruptive at school, dislikes the quiet and is likely to need psychiatric help in the future, the court heard.Equally as poignant is the effect the attack has had on the boys' relationship. "Before it happened they were regularly in each others' company," said Nicholas Campbell QC, prosecuting. "That is no longer the case."