The case against the convicted murderer Siôn Jenkins represents a "catastrophic failure of forensic science", his barrister told the court of appeal yesterday.Jenkins's name should be added to the "long litany" of innocent, people, including the Birmingham Six and Sally Clark, who had been condemned by "flawed forensic science", said Clare Montgomery QC. During closing submissions Miss Montgomery said: "No single strand of the prosecution's scientific case as presented to the jury remains unbroken." She said continuing disagreement between scientists over how Jenkins, 46, came to be spattered with the blood of his 13-year-old foster daughter, Billie-Jo, meant his case ought not to be sent back to crown court for retrial in front of a jury but be immediately quashed. A key plank in the case against Jenkins, a former deputy headteacher, was 150 drops of Billie-Jo's blood found on his clothes. The prosecution successfully argued at his trial that the blood proved he had battered the girl to death with a metal tent spike on the patio of their home in Hastings, East Sussex, in February 1997. Jenkins's case was that as he tended to the dying Billie-Jo she breathed out, and a fine spray of blood contaminated his clothes. Miss Montgomery told the appeal court that evidence now showed that there was a blockage in Billie-Jo's upper airway behind which blood had accumulated. "Anyone who moved Billie-Jo's fallen body at the critical time, or touched her to tend her, or was simply in her presence when the blockage released would have been liable to be hit with a silent aerosol spatter of blood. Siôn Jenkins was in the wrong place at the wrong time," she said. Miss Montgomery said that had the pathologist Ian Hill, who carried out the post-mortem examination on Billie-Jo, undertaken a histological examination, involving a microscopic examination of the teenager's lungs, it would have become clear that the blood might have got on to Jenkins by Billie-Jo breathing out on to him. Such an examination was not carried out, though guidelines from the Home Office and Royal College of Pathologists "required" one. Miss Montgomery said a similar examination carried out for Jenkins's appeal also gave the lie to "confident and glib assurances" made by Dr Hill and also to the consultant paediatrician Professor David Southall that Billie-Jo could not have lived for long after the attack. Miss Montgomery said the new examination showed Billie-Jo could have survived for 20 minutes and therefore been alive at the time Jenkins claimed he tended to her and became spattered with her blood. Miss Montgomery said she found Dr Hill's claim that histology was not an essential part of a postmortem "astonishing". Turning to other evidence, Miss Montgomery said the testimony at the appeal of Jenkins's daughter Lottie, who was 10 at the time of the killing, proved he was innocent as she said that she had been with him for all but a few seconds at the time he allegedly killed Billie-Jo. This reduced "almost to zero" the time available to Jenkins to kill Billie-Jo. Miss Montgomery said the case was not appropriate for a retrial. She said there was a "genuine scientific dispute about the mechanism by which blood got on to Jenkins's clothes". There was therefore "no basis upon which a jury could properly be expected to make the correct determination". She also said important evidence had gone. Only about 40 of the crucial blood spots remain and samples of Billie-Jo's lung tissue have been lost by the hospital where they were stored. It is possible that Lottie and her older sister, Annie, who was also with her father on the day of the murder, would refuse to return to the UK from Tasmania, where they now live with their mother, for a retrial. Miss Montgomery said: "The crime was committed seven years ago and Siôn has spent six of those years in prison in appalling conditions as a child killer. He has been through a trial and two appeals. "His arrest led directly to separation, divorce and estrangement from his daughters. His life has truly been ruined. A retrial after such a long period would be grotesque and unfair."