Polly Toynbee is right to rail against "context-free" crime stories; yet her article itself ignores the context which determines the level and type of crime experienced by the public. Trends in both violent crime and property crime are closely linked to long-run economic and social trends. And these are not reflected in year-on-year changes of the odd percentage point - whether in the British Crime Survey (BCS) or the figures recorded by the police.Serious economic modelling - including work in the Home Office in the early 90s - shows a close link between violence and affluence in all developed societies. The most obvious manifestation is the crowd-related violence associated with binge drinking and the night time economy, which has come to preoccupy ministers over recent years. At the same time, the steady rise over decades in serious violent crime, which increasingly involves the use of weapons, cannot be explained purely in terms of affluence but of more profound changes in society.Meanwhile, patterns of property crime have also been changing, largely as a result of technological change. Burglaries were already on the decline when New Labour came to power as householders became more security conscious, not least because of the impact on their insurance premiums. Motor vehicle crime was similarly on the wane once it became impossible to hotwire cars. So there were easy pickings here for a government promising to get crime down. However, developments in technology were also now creating many new opportunities for parting people from their money, in particular through credit card fraud and other forms of identity theft. And these offences were rarely reported to the police but to a range of other agencies instead.For decades too, it has been increasingly difficult for survey companies to gain access to households in high crime areas where violence tends to be most prevalent; and there are particular difficulties in tracking down young men in these areas - as the mystery of the 1 million young men missing from the 2001 census highlighted. This may not matter for surveys about soap powder; but it does for crime surveys, especially since the majority of victims of violence are young men. So the BCS has always offered a more comforting picture on this score to ministers and this may be one reason they have come to insist the BCS is a more reliable measure of crime than the police statistics.The police figures in turn have always been limited, mainly because victims of crime may not report to the police but, subject to these limitations, the trends they showed were fairly reliable. Since 1997, though, two main changes to the Home Office "counting rules" have so disrupted their continuity that, as one senior officer put it to me: "Trying to work out anything from the recorded crime figures now is a bit like reading tea-leaves." The most recent change was designed to make the police figures more comparable with the BCS and required officers, for example, to record any allegation of an offence, irrespective of whether one had been committed. It produced a 9% "rise" in recorded crime in the two years to 2003-4.Ironically, because the limitations of the BCS have remained relatively stable it has now belatedly begun to reflect the rise in violence. The police by contrast, assisted by bureaucratic dispensations to eliminate "false reporting", have been getting the inflationary effect of the changes under control. This has conveniently produced falls in recorded crime over the last three years, with the exception of offences - such as discovering people with small amounts of cannabis - which provide forces with "quick wins" in their push to meet targets for detection.In sum, the Tories are hypocritically dishonest in trying to score political points out of the crime figures; for the underlying trends were similarly apparent - and similarly ignored - while they were in government. Meanwhile, the present government's recent comprehensive spending review (pdf) suggests it has at last recognised that serious violence is a problem and may even stop spinning the public the line that they are safer than they've been in decades. All three parties, though, need to think carefully about pretending that simply pulling the levers of the criminal justice system in the short term will make much difference to these long-run trends.