The number of rapes reported to police that end in a conviction depends on a "postcode lottery" which sees convictions fluctuating between 1% and 14% depending on where you live.The Home Office figures for 2004 were released yesterday as ministers put forward a package of reforms aimed at boosting the plummeting conviction rate for rape, now at an all-time low of 5.29% of crimes reported in England and Wales.The figures show that just 0.86% of rapes reported to police in Gloucestershire end in a conviction, compared with 13.8% in Northamptonshire.As part of the reforms, videotaped interviews by police with rape victims - possibly conducted within hours of the offence - will routinely be shown to juries in an attempt to secure more convictions. At present videotapes of interviews with child sex assault victims can be shown in court as a substitute for the child's evidence-in-chief - questioning by the prosecution counsel. But, while the law was changed in 1999 to allow the same treatment for adult rape victims, implementation has been held up by a shortage of resources for transcribing the tapes.Ministers said they hoped to bring the measure into operation within 12 months.The reforms would also allow expert witnesses such as psychologists to testify, to dispel myths about how "genuine" victims behave after rape. This would include explanations about why victims often delay reporting a rape, blame themselves and have incomplete or inconsistent memories of the event.Another proposal is for new legislation to define when someone is capable of consenting to sex, to clarify when drunkenness makes a person incapable. This follows a case at Swansea crown court which was dropped by the prosecution midway through on the basis that "drunken consent is still consent".Ministers argue that a decision on whether a woman is too drunk to be capable of consenting should be left to the jury.Mike O'Brien, the solicitor general, said he hoped the reforms would help to reverse an "unacceptable" drop in conviction rates which now sees only one in every 20 rapes reported to police ending in a conviction. Rape conviction rates have dropped steadily from 33% of reported cases in 1977 to only 5.29% in 2004. The percentage of rapists brought to justice is much lower, because only about 15% of rapes are thought to come to the attention of the police.Mr O'Brien said: "The key problem on conviction of rape cases is that the prosecution must prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. We do not intend to change that. What we can do is improve the way the prosecution get the best evidence before the jury."The Fawcett Society's commission on women and the criminal justice system will launch a report today calling on the government to adopt an integrated strategy to tackle all forms of violence against women. It highlights the rape postcode lottery and unequal access around the country to rape crisis centres, sexual assault referral centres and specialist domestic violence courts.