Detectives yesterday arrested a 25-year-old man after a father found his six-year-old son dead from multiple slash wounds in his own bedroom in Manchester.The father, who has not been named by police, had left his son at home with a family friend while he spent an evening with friends in Manchester.He discovered his son had been murdered when he returned at breakfast time to his ground floor maisonette in a terrace house in Chorlton. He called the police and the man in custody was arrested 45 minutes later at a cafe 350 yards away.Greater Manchester police said the boy's father returned to the house in Terrington Close to find his son's body at 8.25am and immediately dialled 999.The suspect was arrested on suspicion of murder at 9.10am in the Nell Lane area."The boy's father is very distressed and is being cared for by specialist police officers," said Detective Superintendent Martin Bottomley, who is leading the murder inquiry. "He had left his son in the care of a family friend while he went out for the night and is absolutely devastated at what he found the next morning."The boy was his whole world and his whole life and it is going to take some considerable time to get the details of what happened out of him."Mr Bottomley confirmed the boy had been found in his bedroom. He was an only child and is believed to have been a pupil at Chorlton Park primary school. He had celebrated his birthday three weeks ago."We are looking for anyone who saw anything from 8pm last night to 9am this morning to contact us," added Mr Bottomley."There is a great deal of scientific evidence being gathered at present and we are arranging for a postmortem examination to be carried out."Police are trying to contact relatives of the boy, including his mother, who is believed to live in Ireland."The boy's father is distraught," said a neighbour." He arranged to leave his son with a babysitter for the night so he could go out for the night with friends."When he came back he found a scene of absolute horror. We heard the lad was found in his bedroom. It must be every parent's worst nightmare."The house, in a cul-de-sac, was sealed off as forensic science teams moved in. Flowers were also laid at the scene. One message read: "The angels are watching over you. Rest in peace."A postmortem examination to establish the cause of death was expected to be carried out today, police said.