There are so many ways of bringing law to a wider audience. You can make a music video.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest You can go head-to-head with a famous blogger with whom you disagree (sometimes anyway) on some substantial issues of law and principle, as Henry Porter and I did on our recent blog.But at the Guardian we are bringing more law to more people by writing brilliant news, features and analysis on all of the most important law stories of the day – all at our new website guardian.co.uk/law. We have launched this site because law matters. It matters for people who want to challenge the power of the state to do anything, from closing a care home to taking the country to war. It matters to people who claim bullying or discrimination at work, and for the employers who dispute it. It matters to voters who question the power of the courts to interpret decisions made by democratically elected politicians. It matters to politicians, constrained by the rule of law, on what they are allowed to do. It matters to people concerned that ancient principles of liberty have been swept away by fear about the threat of terrorism and the draconian responses of the executive.The law matters to people who read books or watch films, vulnerable to the effects of libel law. It matters to families going through divorces or care proceedings relating to their children. It matters to anyone who cares about domestic violence, or war crimes, or the constantly evolving trends in international law and human rights. These are the stories and issues which the Guardian covers like no other newspaper and on this new website, you'll find even more; from class-actions to crime, privacy to personal injury. There will be in-depth interviews with big hitters in the world of law, and some more unusual characters, too. It's not just me. We are teaming up with other legal experts and writers from around the world to bring you all the best content in one place. guardian.co.uk/law is where it's at. You can sign up to the Guardian's weekly newsletter. Or just come and read the brilliant content on our site and – as always – add your own comments and be part of it!