The small Scottish town of Dunblane was wracked with grief and horror last night as details emerged of the killer who had lived in their midst until yesterday, when he shot dead 16 small children and a teacher in three minutes of carnage in a primary school gym.Thomas Hamilton, aged 43, a disgraced former Scout master whose behaviour had attracted the attention of the police, turned one of his four guns on himself after killing or injuring all but one of a class of 29 five and six year-olds at Dunblane primary school, near Stirling.Last night three of the 12 children at hospital in Stirling, Falkirk and Glasgow were on the critical list.As the Queen, the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition registered their shock and distress at the worst multiple murder this country has seen, there were immediate calls for greater security in schools and tightening of the laws on gun ownership, last addressed after the Hungerford massacre in August 1987.No obvious motive had emerged yesterday, but the many people who had encountered Hamilton drew a picture of a man who was obsessed with small boys and embittered by rejection. He became a Scout leader in 1973, aged 20, but was asked to leave the following year because of complaints about his behaviour at camp. He tried many times to get back in to the organisation.Later he ran a boys club - at one time in the school gym, some say - and recently, said a neighbour, he had been turned down as a voluntary worker for the primary school where he yesterday wreaked such bloody havoc.Details of Hamilton's gruesome rampage were vague last night, partly because the chief witnesses were dead, wounded or too young and traumatised. It is believed the gunman began firing his weapons in the playground not long after school began, then forced his way past two of the 25 staff as he walked along a passageway, past the dining room, and into the gym, where 45-year-old Gwen Mayor's class was in progress.Fifteen children and Mrs Mayor died at the scene; another child died in hospital. It is not known how many bullets were discharged during the massacre, which the police estimate lasted between two and three minutes. Only one child escaped unscathed. A further two pupils were absent because of illness.The whole school heard gunfire. The headteacher, Ronald Taylor, was described by police as a hero for the work he put in to calm the distraught pupils of the 700-strong school. He is believed to have been the first on the scene and to have called the emergency services at around 9.30am. Jack Beattie, a senior consultant paeditrician, who arrived with the medical team, said it was the worst carnage he had witnessed in his 19 years as a doctor."We saw a large number of dead and injured children when we arrived in the gymnasium," he said. "They were distributed within the room in various positions, the dead with the injured. There were a number of teachers comforting the children who were still alive and ambulance staff who had arrived at the scene before us."The children were very quiet. They were in shock both because of the injuries and because of the psychological shock."Steven Hopper, aged 11, was in his classroom yards from the gym, which only a little earlier had been full during morning assembly."It was right next to my classroom," he said. "I looked over and saw the gunman. He seemed to come out of the gymnasium and he was just firing at something."He was coming towards me, so I just dived under my desk when he turned and fired at us. The firing was very fast, like someone hitting a hammer quickly. Then there was a few seconds of a pause and he started again."It was pretty scary when he started firing at our classroom window because all the glass smashed in and I got hit by a piece."As the news reached the town, parents began to congregate at the school gates. Their children were handed back to them in small groups, but the parents of the small victims were led to a private room. Nora Dougherty, governor at the school, said: "I found out it was not my daughters. I felt relieved - and then I felt terribly guilty that I felt relieved."A father outside the school gates cried: "I don't know if my girls are alive or dead. What kind of a maniac does this? They are just babies in there." Janet Aitken, mother of an 11-year-old pupil, said: "I have my son, but many don't. When I saw Campbell I just wanted to weep, but many parents aren't having a reunion with their children."Michael Forsyth, the Scottish Secretary, flew to Scotland as soon as the news broke. "I cannot find the words to express what has happened here today," he said after being taken to the scene. He was joined by the shadow Scottish secretary, George Robertson, who lives in Dunblane. Mr Robertson, whose children attend the Dunblane primary, described the murders as "an act of unspeakable brutality and woe".In a message to Mr Forsyth, the Queen said she was "deeply shocked by the appalling news from Dunblane". She said: "In asking you to pass my deepest and most heartfelt sympathy to the families of all those who were killed or injured, and to the injured themselves, I am sure I share in the grief and horror of the whole country."John Major said: "They are perhaps the generation that has more to look forward to in optimism and hope than any before and suddenly this appalling act snuffs out that opportunity."Police in Scotland will open a fatal accident inquiry, a formality for any unnatural death. They refused to say whether Mr Hamilton's pistols were automatic, but confirmed that the gunman had held the appropriate firearms certificate.