A teenage girl told the Old Bailey today that she saw four boys attack Damilola Taylor, the Nigerian-born boy who was murdered on a south London housing estate.The 14-year-old girl, who cannot be named for legal reasons, named three of the youths accused of the murder and said she knew the fourth attacker by sight. Two brothers, both aged 16, a 17-year-old friend and a 14-year-old youth deny murder, manslaughter and assault with intent to rob.  Damilola bled to death in a stairwell after being stabbed with a broken beer bottle in November 2000. The girl, who the prosecution says was the only eyewitness to the attack, said she was walking home from school when she saw the four youths turning into Blakes Road, Peckham.By the time she turned into the road, the youths had surrounded Damilola, aged 10.  She hid behind a parked car and watched the attack.  Speaking from behind a screen shielding her from the defendants and their lawyers, the girl said: "I didn't want to go over there because I was being nosy.  "I just thought they was talking and then they started moving their hands over. I thought they were robbing someone." She was asked if she could see who was being robbed and said it was a boy. "They were all standing around him in a semi-circle," she said, adding that she could not hear what was being said. She said one of the brothers raised his hand and then the 17-year-old walked away from the group and turned around the corner. Seconds later she heard the sound of breaking glass from where he had gone and she told the courtroom he had broken something. When he walked back to the group she said he was holding something in his hand but she could not immediately see what it was. But asked what had happened when he got back to the group, she said he had passed a bottle to the others. "They passed the bottle round," she said, adding: "I think they was saying something to the little boy." She added: "They just hit him with the thing."She said that the brothers were standing in front of the boy, while the two others stood beside him, keeping a lookout. She did not say which of the group had she seen hit Damilola.Mark Dennis for the prosecution explained why it had taken almost a month before the girl came forward as a witness.He said that she became concerned in the immediate aftermath of the attack that she may be criticised by police for not tending to Damilola and instead walking on.Mr Dennis said the girl was also aware that she would be informing on a friend, one of the defendants."You may well think that it would never be easy for a 13-year-old to inform on his or her own peer group, but it would be all the more difficult when the matter would entail such serious consequences," he said. It was not until December 23, almost a month after Damilola's death, that the girl made a 999 call to the police.Even then she tried to remain anonymous. In her initial account to police, the girl claimed that she had been told about the incident by some of the defendants, hiding the fact that she had actually witnessed the attack."The position changed on 31 January," Mr Dennis said. "The effort of maintaining the pretence had proved too much and she relented. She then took officers and showed them where she had been walking and had then observed the assault from across and down the road. She then gave the police a full and detailed account of what she had seen."  He asked the jury to make allowances for the girl, who had to face the strain of being a witness in a case that had resulted in the death of a young boy and the fear of being considered a grass by her peers.The trial continues.