One sin that criminal justice policy has not recently indulged in is sloth. The average decade in the 60 years up to 1985 produced one criminal justice act; the next 10 years saw one passed every 18 months; since 1997 the rate has stepped up again to reach more than two a year. And true to form, yesterday's serious crime bill was weighty and ambitious. The difficulty is that more does not mean better.Flux leaves the system struggling to understand what it is meant to be doing, which is hardly a recipe for doing the job well. Even the judges are confused. The lord chief justice is proposing new advice for them after the appeal court quashed four sentences last month that had been passed by judges who had misunderstood their own powers. The last few days underlined the gap between theory and practice, as a third terror suspect absconded from a controversial control order and as inept record-keeping on foreign crimes was revealed. Indeed it falls to yesterday's bill to tidy up one much-vaunted recent reform that never worked out, by scrapping the Assets Recovery Agency, which cost £60m to set up yet recovered only £8m from criminals. In this context, it must be asked how far and how happily yesterday's battery of measures - new offences, new control orders and new powers to share data - will translate into something that really cuts crime.It is hard to tackle organised criminals who have the resources to keep their hands clean and to hire smart lawyers. If, despite the doubts, the new proposals deter money laundering, people trafficking or arms smuggling, then that would be strongly in their favour. It would not, however, be the end of the argument, for there are issues of principle too. The new crime-prevention orders, for example, would dilute the presumption of innocence by curtailing the liberty of people not proved to have committed a crime. That erosion of freedom needs to be balanced against a theoretical cut in crime. The signs are that the government has been cavalier in proposing who the orders apply to and in specifying what the restrictions might be. Suspects of inadvertent involvement in crime could lose freedom over their travel, the company they keep or anything else that the court thinks important. The risk is that, where a prosecution cannot be stood up, draconian restrictions may be used as a substitute for punishment.Likewise, sharing of data - across government and with the private sector - should be considered only where there is a specific need. But the government indicates that it might go further. Organised crime is a menace that must be tackled, but liberty matters too. The balance is not as simple as ministers suggest.