'Come and talk to prisoners" is the one kind of speaking invitation I never refuse. Strangely, I do more of it abroad than at home. This is because several prison governors in Britain have refused to allow me to accept invitations from their chaplaincies. In the early weeks of this year the governors of both Pentonville and Belmarsh prisons in London banned me from coming to speak to their inmates; yet I can't complain, because in the same period I was welcomed by the governors of seven other UK jails, so I do not take these rejections personally. They are just more manifestations of the anomalies and illogicalities that are found time and again throughout the uneven landscape of Her Majesty's Prison Service.Any thoughtful person who has seen as much of Britain's prison system as I have soon turns his or her mind towards the subject of prison reform. This has become another of my new passions. What worries me most is our national complacency about the alarming reoffending statistics. Out of every five prisoners who are released from our prisons, three are reconvicted and back behind bars within two years. Among prisoners in the 18-25 age group, four out of every five released are reconvicted and jailed again within two years. Are there any reforms that could improve this dismal failure rate? I believe that we need to tackle three main practical areas crying out for reform - literacy, work and drugs.Illiteracy and subliteracy are major ingredients in reoffending. One-third of all Britain's prisoners cannot read or write at all. How can any of them hope to earn an honest living on their release if they cannot even read labels in a warehouse or notices in a factory?The same must be partly true for the next one-third of all prisoners, whose literacy skills are below the level of 11-year-old schoolchildren. What is needed here is a root-and-branch drive to reduce prisoner illiteracy. If resources from public expenditure cannot be made available for this task, then bring in volunteers to give simple lessons in reading and writing to illiterate prisoners.The Prison Service needs to do far more to open its doors to voluntary workers across a whole range of rehabilitative areas. Literacy is one in dire need of attention. As part of the drive to tackle this problem I would like to see far more imaginative use made of remission. At present it comes uniformly and automatically to all inmates who keep out of serious trouble. A scheme by which extra remission could be earned by prisoners who achieve certain educational qualifications, including basic literacy and NVQ levels, would be well worth introducing into the criminal justice system.Real work for prisoners is another area of reform that needs attention. The Prison Service fails year after year to meet its promised target of providing four hours a day of "purposeful activity" for each prisoner. Very little of this so-called purposeful activity is related to genuine work. Only 10% of all prisoners ever get placed in prison workshops, factories or jobs which bear some resemblance to jobs in the outside world. Remedying this failure could have a major impact on the reoffending rate.The Home Office calculates that employment on release from prison reduces the risk of reoffending by between a third and a half. As I saw at first hand, a lot of prison work is a bit of a joke and not much else. Without sweeping reforms in this area, the joke will continue to backfire by increasing the reoffending rate.The third priority for reform should be tackling drugs in prison. The general view among inmates is that three out of every four prisoners take drugs regularly. This guesstimate may be too low. A recent report by the House of Commons home affairs committee put the serious drug-use figure among prisoners at 80%. My observation is that the Prison Service has reconciled itself to losing the battle against prisoner drug abuse. Many governors and rank-and-file prison officers have simply given up trying to stem the tide of drugs entering their jails. Such defeatism will assuredly result in reoffending continuing to rise. Yet improved security, drug testing and drug treatment could have a huge impact on reoffending in the long term.One last area of potential reform is the pioneering work achieved in reducing reoffending rates by the charity Prison Fellowship. It is called "InnerChange", a label well known to American prison specialists because five US states have been pioneering InnerChange prisons since 1997. An independent University of Pennsylvania study shows that over the last eight years, prisoners released from the InnerChange correctional facility at Sugarland, Texas, have been reoffending at the rate of 8%, whereas the average reoffending rate among all US prisoners is 67% - very similar to the British figure.InnerChange prisons are a Prison Fellowship initiative which offers the inmates who volunteer for it a concentrated regime of rehabilitation, change, retraining and post-release mentoring. The principles of restorative justice, the practicalities of preparing for a new life of honest work in the community, the teachings of faith-based instructors and the fellowship of outside mentors are all part of the InnerChange programme. The point about it is that it works. As its founder Charles Colson says: "You can argue about faith, but you can't argue about the consequences of faith. That 8% reoffending rate speaks for itself."Faith-based solutions to the problems of prisoner rehabilitation have in the past been regarded with scepticism, if not hostility, by Britain's politically correct prison administrators. But the ground is shifting. The success of faith-based restorative justice courses in jails around the world is changing some attitudes within the UK Prison Service.In early 2005 I attended the opening of Britain's first faith-based InnerChange facility in HMP Dartmoor. It was a day of great rejoicing for those of us who have been campaigning for this particular experiment to be given a try in a British jail. So watch this InnerChange space at Dartmoor and watch the results of other spiritual initiatives for prison reform, such as the Brixton prison initiative launched by the Catholic bishops in December 2004.It will certainly be one of my passions in the coming years to fight for a reforming agenda in the fields of prison literacy, work, drugs and faith-based rehabilitation programmes.· Jonathan Aitken is a former cabinet minister and prisoner. This is an edited extract from his new book Porridge and Passion.