The lord and lady of the manor at one of Britain’s most treasured stately homes were attacked and tied up during a raid which netted nearly £700,000 in antique jewellery, including a diamond ring given by Charles II to his mistress. Charles Gordon-Lennox, Earl of March and Kinrara, better known as Lord March, was struck over the head and his wife, Janet, manhandled and forced to open a safe after they disturbed an intruder in their home, Goodwood House, on Wednesday morning. They were left tied up until a member of staff found them after arriving for work at 6.30am. A 26-year-old man from Hampshire has been arrested on suspicion of robbery and bailed, but on Friday afternoon police reiterated an appeal for information.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   A diamond tiara valued at nearly £400,000 was among the items taken in the raid on Goodwood House. Photograph: Sussex Police/PALord and Lady March have been left devastated by the theft of irreplaceable items, police said.“The intruder broke in after scaling a ladder to an upstairs window, and his activity disturbed Lady March, who went to investigate. She disturbed the man, who was alone, and he pushed her and struck Lord March on the head, causing an injury to his ear,” said DI Till Sanderson of Sussex police.“Lady March was then forced to open a safe and the man helped himself to jewellery. The couple were bound before the robber escaped with the items.”Among the stolen heirlooms were an 1820 diamond tiara worth nearly £400,000, diamond necklaces and several luxury watches, including antique Rolex and Girard-Perregaux timepieces.       Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   An emerald and diamond ring that Charles II had given to his mistress was among the items taken from Goodwood House. Photograph: Sussex Police/PAOther items taken included an emerald intaglio and diamond ring from 1800, engraved with a coronet and the monogram CL for Louise de Keroualle, mistress of Charles II. Earrings, bracelets and necklaces were also among the more than 40 items stolen.In a statement, Lord March said: “The last 48 hours have been challenging and I would like to thank Sussex police, my team here at Goodwood and the local and national press for their support.“I am pleased to tell you that we are both recovering and entirely focused on providing the police with anything that may help recover the stolen items, some of which have such personal significance and others such historical value.” Sanderson added: “Forensic teams are working with detectives to investigate the circumstances and we are appealing for anyone who saw any suspicious activity during that night up until 7am or in the previous week to contact us. “We are doing all we can try to trace the stolen treasures, liaising with auction houses, stately homes, dealers and those with specialist knowledge. I am appealing to anyone who may know anything to contact detectives.” The 12,000-acre Goodwood estate in Westhampnett, near Chichester, West Sussex, has been in March’s family since 1697. It is home to the Goodwood motor circuit, and hosts the annual Festival of Speed, Goodwood Revival and Glorious Goodwood events, as well as two 18-hole golf courses, a 4,000-acre organic farm, Goodwood aerodrome and flying school, and a 91-bedroom hotel.The headquarters of Rolls-Royce cars is also on the estate.