If you want an idea of the challenges involved in policing a major international city, of the occasionally surreal spectrum of issues a chief police officer must juggle and the delicate dance he must perform between his political masters and the media, you could do worse than sit through a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Service's management board. The 10 men and one woman - each responsible for a different section or role of the force - meet three times a week in a conference room that could pass for the boardroom of any medium-sized company. Today's meeting, to which the Guardian has been given rare access, will range from an errant pop star's latest misdemeanour ("Did I see that Pete Doherty's troubles continue?") to developments in the investigation into the botched London bombings of July 21, via a debate on how to present the latest crime figures.First, each of the board members delivers a summary of what has happened on their patch over the previous 48 hours. Tim Godwin, the portly assistant commissioner in charge of local policing, reports a "busy weekend" with two officers shot at. There's been an unexplained death in Lewisham and a non-fatal shooting in Greenwich. Andy Hayman, the laconic head of anti-terrorist policing familiar from post-July 7 press conferences, says he plans to ask for more time to hold a suspect linked to the 21/7 bombings because he doesn't yet have enough evidence to press charges. Alan Brown, responsible for internal standards, reports that two Met officers have been arrested over the weekend, one in a neighbourhood dispute, the other over a domestic violence allegation. Dick Fedorcio, director of public affairs, summarises the weekend's press inquiries: "Just a lot of interest in Kate Moss."Paul Stephenson, the deputy commissioner whose rich tan seems to jar with the slate sky outside, says there is a "bilateral with the home secretary" coming up, and "we need to be in a position by then with a narrative about what the [crime] figures actually mean". Godwin gives a detailed report: the bad news is that robbery is up 14% this year and burglary up 3%, he says; the good news is that the total number of crimes recorded in the city looks set to fall below a million for the first time in five years. Stephenson immediately spots a potentially useful headline but Hayman, who has spent much of the meeting doing his paperwork, wonders if the force should keep its powder dry. "How much do you think we're under pressure to come up with something as positive as that? Or do you want to keep it in the back pocket for when you're under pressure?"Then there's a brief, seemingly unremarkable conversation about the uproar over the murder of a young white lawyer in Kensal Rise the previous weekend. Tarique Ghaffur, in charge of homicide investigations, points out that two other murders the same weekend received little or no publicity. One victim was black and the other Asian. Blair takes up the theme: "The life of a middle-class white man is apparently more valuable than an Asian man who's dragged to death in Stratford." It is a measure of how intensely controversial Blair has become that five days later, an infelicitously phrased version of this remark will be splashed across the front pages of five national newspapers.A tough act to follow  On Wednesday, 52-year-old Blair will complete his first year as commissioner of the Met, a bruising job from which few predecessors have emerged intact. During that time he has been catapaulted from little-known namesake of the prime minister to one of Britain's most ubiquitous public figures. When I started interviewing him for this report last spring, his name elicited bemused shrugs. Three months later Private Eye would run a pastiche "Wanted" item on him with the line: "Have you not seen this man?".Along the way, Blair has become a virtual faultline in Britain's political geography. He is caricatured by the rightwing press as "the PC pc" and regarded with suspicion by many of his own rank and file as a New Labour bureaucrat. But to liberal observers and some senior officers he is the embodiment of a new breed of thoughtful, reforming policemen - a visionary, even. Reactions to his Dimbleby lecture in November - the first in 30 years by a policeman - perfectly captured what a divisive figure he has become. The Guardian declared that his call for a national debate on the future of policing "could hardly be more timely or more necessary". The Daily Mail responded with the headline: "Oh, Do Shut Up, Sir Ian."And looming over his commissionership since July 22 has been the dark shadow of the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes. Leaked details from the Independent Police Complaints Commission inquiry into the incident suggest it will only lengthen: yesterday it emerged that Met surveillance officers falsified a log to minimise their apparent culpability in the shooting. Even if Blair escapes direct criticism for the shooting, his subsequent handling of the crisis looks hapless at best. Why was his first act following the incident to seek to avoid an independent investigation? Why did he not contradict early reports that Menezes had, in effect, invited his fate by behaving suspiciously? Was it really conceivable that no one told him they killed the wrong man till the following day, as he has maintained? Whatever else he has achieved, he almost certainly set a new record for the shortest time between a commissioner being appointed and the demand for his resignation.Even before the curveball of last summer's extraordinary events, though, Blair faced a series of challenges. Perhaps the toughest was how to fill the shoes of Sir John Stevens, his swashbuckling predecessor. Unusually for a Met commissioner, Stevens left the job an unequivocal success, credited with restoring the morale of the force after the dark days of the Lawrence crisis, and having presided over dramatic falls in crime. More to the point, he was loved by the rank and file. Ask about him and it isn't long before you hear the phrase "copper's copper". One senior officer summed up Blair's problem: "Stevens was an almost impossible act to follow."The shadow of Stevens would have been tricky for any successor, but Blair seemed his very antithesis. Whereas Stevens was the physically imposing, hands-on policeman who at times seemed to be upholding law and order in the capital single-handedly, Blair was the slightly geeky intellectual, more comfortable, the profile writers frequently reminded us, discussing evolutionary biology with the novelist Ian McEwan than chewing the fat in the police canteen. (In fact, his much reported friendship with McEwan was limited to a single dinner-party encounter; McEwan recalls finding him "intellectually supple" during a conversation that ranged from "the genetic basis of personality" to "the slippery nature of statistics".) Just 15 years ago, Robert Reiner reported in his study of the nation's most senior policemen, that while 25% of chief constables had degrees, not one had been a graduate when they joined the police. Blair, by contrast, was an Oxford literature graduate and a thespian to boot.He has hardly been shy about acknowledging his otherness. In his Dimbleby address - peppered with quotes from the likes of William Beveridge, Georges Clemenceau and Robert Kennedy - he related how the producer had proposed him as an interesting candidate for the lecture "partially because he himself wanted to know why someone like you would be a police officer". Such pronouncements - and a reputation for chilliness that some describe as arrogance - have hardly endeared him to his troops, says Tony Judge, a former policeman and writer on police matters: "He doesn't enjoy much support. He doesn't seem to be a leader, he seems to be very much a theorist. He's seen as an academic police officer first and foremost, a product of the leadership cadre that has emerged over the last 30 years."One member of the Metropolitan Police Authority, the body that oversees the Met, is more direct: "He tries to intellectually headfuck people. He tries to twist you up in intellectual arguments about issues that are sometimes plain and simple and very, very, clear."It was curiosity about how this very unusual policeman would fare in the brutal arena of public life that prompted me to follow his progress through much of the past year. Could he win over the sceptics within his own ranks? Could he reshape the culture of an organisation bigger than the Royal Navy, with a budget the size of a small country? Or was he riding for a fall?Culture wars New Scotland Yard is a gratifyingly dishevelled, 60s-built towerblock protected from car- bomb attack by a number of concrete slabs masquerading, somewhat half-heartedly, as flower pots. For security reasons, I can't tell you what floor Blair's office is on, but I can tell you it is a spacious, spartan room with modern, light wood furniture that looks out over an anonymous hotch-potch of Whitehall roofs. One wall is dominated by two large flat screens, one for news coverage and the other that will relay footage from any of the Met's CCTV cameras. Two prints made by Nelson Mandela during his imprisonment on Robben Island hang on another wall. In one corner is a glass cabinet inside which are displayed a Sikh sword, a copy of the Ashkenazi Haggadah (a Jewish prayer book) and, slightly more mysteriously, a book entitled A Portrait of New Zealand.It is almost impossible to visit New Scotland Yard without being reminded of Blair's right-on agenda - and the culture wars around it. On one visit, I pick up a copy of the Met's in-house journal, The Job. Its front page features two stories: one about a senior officer in Newham taking part in an Afro-Caribbean cultural evening and another about a crackdown on domestic violence involving officers. On a later visit I happen on an issue of Constabulary, "written by police for police". Its front-page headline: "Stop this madness. Political correctness has gone way beyond reasonable and fair."On the June day we first meet, Leo McKinstry has unleashed a tirade in the Daily Telegraph castigating the Met's "neurotic focus on equality" and claiming that "a once proud body renowned across the world for its integrity" had become "crippled by an ideological obsession with race and gender". Blair seems bemused by the ferocity of the onslaught. "I'm never going to be the Mail's cup of tea. I can't work the Telegraph out, the things we are doing are what the Telegraph would like us to do but they still don't like it, do they?"Standing 5ft 11in and with slightly sloping shoulders, Blair lacks the commanding presence of his predecessor. He has a fresh-scrubbed ruddiness about him that brings to mind a country vicar. He becomes really animated only when he starts to outline his ambitious plan to reform the Met. There will be a root-and-branch review to redirect up to £300m into frontline operations, a project to codify a set of values for the organisation and a push towards being more responsive to the citizen. The first manifestation of this cultural shift has already been unveiled to great hilarity: the slogan "Working for a safer London" that appeared on all police vehicles has been replaced by "Working together for a safer London".With something approaching missionary zeal, Blair rattles through the sort of anomalies he plans to tackle. "Let's just take homicide. If somebody dies in a murder, the homicide command swings into action, and they're the Rolls-Royces. So if you kill your partner, walk into the police station and confess it, it's still dealt with by the homicide command. If an organised criminal shoots you in a drug deal and you just don't happen to die, that's left to some temporary detective constable on borough."He reels off more organisational idiocies: "Every one of the four big commands - specialist operations, specialist crime, territorial policing and central operations - have their own surveillance units, their own pro-active units and own intelligence units. We've got 110 commands altogether and each one of those has got an HR department and a finance department."I wonder where Blair looks for comparisons that might inform the running of an organisation as singular as the Met and am surprised by his answer. "The BBC," he says without hesitation. The director general Mark Thompson is a longtime friend and the two regularly compare notes. The two organisations have a similar budget, size and public service ethos, he says. "And they are both iconic ... I mean, whatever Mark does, he's attacked from one direction or the other. And it's the same thing with the reform programmes here ... The other point in comparison is that they're closer to their nightmare, which was Hutton, whereas we're six or seven years on from Lawrence. So there are some interesting pieces there."Blair has a peculiar enthusiasm for the word "piece" which he uses often, and oddly. He talks about John Stevens' style of leadership as "a personality piece" and refers to his reform plan as "the long-term piece". Once, while discussing the fact that he had not been able to take a holiday during an incident-packed summer, he remarks that he felt "a lack of that two-week, three-week, battery-building piece". The impression created is of a man who sees everything, from his holidays to his relations with staff, as parts of a giant jigsaw puzzle.Already he has a detailed timetable mapped out for his commissionership. The middle three years of his five-year term will be the crucial time for imposing his reforms, he says. "I think the sticky year will begin when the results [of the efficiency review] start to be leaked to the Evening Standard, the abolition of the flying squad or whatever else will be dreamed up by somebody, or 5,000 job losses or whatever else comes hurtling towards us." Will there be job losses? "I can't think at the moment of the way there isn't going to be. That's going to be hard because this organisation has never had any." (A Met spokesman last week insisted the force now expects to find savings through natural wastage rather than redundancies.)Blair joined the Met in 1974 straight from Oxford, soon after deciding that he lacked the talent to make it as an actor. "I went to the Oxford appointments board and I told them all the things I didn't want to do, and this woman said to me, 'Have you ever thought of joining the police?'"John Grieve, former head of the Met's anti-terrorist squad, worked with the young Blair when he was assigned to Notting Hill. "I first met him at staff college and thought, 'If this is the future of policing ... ' but he worked his butt off. He did late nights, he kicked front doors in. He's not a very warm character so he hasn't got a big supporters' club from the past, but he definitely learned all the lessons he needed to learn in six months. He's done more than some people who now claim to be fantastic detectives ... I don't remember some of them being about then."Blair recalls the most dramatic moment of his early career, when he and another officer strayed into what became the Balcombe Street siege in 1977. "The IRA shot up a restaurant in Mount Street. Myself and a sergeant, who was driving, we were in a car about 200 yards from Mount Street and the call came over the radio that the bandit car, as it's called, was going up Park Lane. He said to me, 'I wonder if they have got Park Lane right or whether they mean Park Street?' We turned the corner, and there is the car ... it was a very defining moment. I think I spent the next half an hour pretending to be a bush. They got out of the car and started firing at us. It is an interesting experience being fired at when you have absolutely nothing to fire back with ... I loved it. I loved the job from the first minute."Blair moved quickly through the ranks. By the time of the King's Cross fire in 1987, he was a detective chief inspector, charged with overseeing the identification of the victims. After a stint at Thames Valley, he led the Met's high-profile, anti-corruption drive, Operation Gallery, in the early 90s. He insists he is not regarded as a smooth-skinned bureaucrat by the rank and file. He tells me how he recently made a surprise appearance at the retirement ceremony of an officer he had served with. "My people who were with me were saying the whole station is in uproar, they think this is absolutely amazing. So it doesn't play that way in the station."At the end of our first meeting I ask Blair to score his own performance during his first few months in office out of 10. "One wouldn't want to be immodest, but I think I would probably put it at somewhere around seven or eight. Not a seven or eight as to where I want to get to. But seven or eight as you would have expected after four months. I think so far I have held my nerve about the big issues."A screen-grabbing performance Our next meeting is scheduled for a date that once seemed unremarkable - July 7. I imagine we will talk mostly about the case of three former officers who have successfully taken the Met to an industrial tribunal claiming they had been wrongly disciplined for using racist language. The case has become exhibit one in the case against a police force seemingly paralysed by political correctness, not least because it had been Blair who, as deputy commissioner, had insisted the men be punished, even though the force's most senior Asian officer, Tarique Ghaffur, exonerated them in an appeal.But the events of July 7 unfold somewhat differently, and by the time we meet a week later, the embarrassment of the tribunal seems to belong to another age. Despite the rigours of the past week, Blair looks remarkably cheery. He is regarded as having done a good job in the aftermath of the bombings, and he knows it. Even so, I am struck that one of the first things he mentions is the impact of the London attacks on his reform plans. "Now the dilemma for me is keeping enough momentum around that long-term piece, while allowing for the fact that a) people are exhausted, and b) some of the places where we may want to go and find some changes are at the moment in the middle of the heat of battle. There is certainly a very strong potential for change in the anti-terrorist command or the special branch, but I'm not sure that any of us want to be the people who walk down and tell them at the moment."Blair describes how he was working in his office as the dramatic events of July 7 began to unravel. "I'm sitting here, I'm writing the speech that I was going to give in an hour's time ... Caroline knocked on the door about whatever it was, ten past nine, and said, 'I know you don't want to be disturbed, but this is urgent,' and so ... from then on you're into something else."At first even the Met command was struggling to figure out what was happening. When he heard reports of a power surge and mention of an incident at Edgware Road, Blair recalled there was an important London Underground "switch" in Edgware, "and there's a bit of a click of sense there around that. But by the time we'd begun to understand that it was Aldgate East and then something at King's Cross which we didn't understand, you were realising you've got something different. And, of course, as soon as - by quarter to ten - as soon as you saw the picture of the bus you knew this was something entirely different."He called an emergency meeting of his management board and checked that the gold commander, the officer designated to coordinate the response to any emergency, had taken charge. Then, as Andy Hayman, the head of specialist operations, headed off to a meeting of Cobra, Downing Street's emergency response committee, he took a key decision. "I was just instinctively aware that what we needed now was a man in a uniform - well, it could have been a woman in a uniform - but I happen to be a man ... there was a person in a uniform that had to go on [TV] and say, 'We're OK'." Blair headed to Millbank where he could do interviews with all the broadcasters in quick succession. "I just think that was - and I don't want to be at all boastful - I just think that was the right moment. You had to do that. And I know from the feedback I've had from ministers and everything else that they just, wherever they were, they saw that and went, 'Woah, that's what we need'."In fact, a senior police source later told me that Blair's decision to go straight in front of the cameras was against the advice of both his press advisers and Cobra. But even his critics concede that his poised performance, reassuring a febrile nation that "a confused situation is coming under control", helped calm the situation and earned him newfound respect within the Met. "He held the London markets together," says John Grieve. "You could have had a very different result out of 7/7." Bill Griffiths, formerly the Met's top homicide detective, offers a similar assessment: "After the events in July, his share value went up extremely. He was seen to be calm, in command."A few days after the bombings, Blair walked down the tunnel to visit the officers working in the hellish wreckage under Russell Square. "Clearly they are very pleased to see the top man turning up. One of my advantages in this particular process is that I did do the identification of the dead at King's Cross. So I am able at least to look them in the eye and say, 'I know this is grisly, but I've seen this.' I mean, I wouldn't put it that way, but I can talk to them about what it feels like ... I know that they were desperately pleased. They don't tell you they are desperately pleased, but what happens is that they ring lots of mates and say, 'Do you know the commissioner has been here?' And gradually that works back. And that is leadership."Triumph and tragedy Three weeks pass until we meet again, during which time the Met experiences two of the most dramatic days in its 175-year history: one of them surely among the blackest and the other one of its most impressive. The first, July 22, sees the shooting of Menezes, wrongly mistaken for a suicide bomber at Stockwell tube station, a disaster that seems more egregious with every newly leaked detail. On the second, exactly a week later, all four of the men suspected of attempting to carry out a repeat of July 7 are rounded up, during a day of high drama that swings from a siege in west London to a swoop on a Rome apartment. And that's ignoring 21/7, the strange, scary day of the second attempted attacks. It's a Thursday when I make the journey to New Scotland Yard, the day on which both the other attacks took place, and Blair has flooded the tube with 4,000 officers, many of them armed. I am struck by how much my local tube station resembles the check-in area for an El Al flight.Blair is wearing a short-sleeved white shirt and a rosy complexion that is the product of a day's gardening in the sun. He seems surprisingly cheerful and relaxed, sprawling across one of the faux suede armchairs in his office. Once again he wants to talk first about his reform programme, "because I think one of the interesting things is actually trying to retain the momentum around change while this is happening".He recalls how events unfolded on the morning of July 21. "I can't remember what I was doing during the day, but I know where it was. I happened to be in here. I think it came in about 12.30. I remember just sort of looking out of the window and thinking, 'This really changes everything.' I mean, the first one changed everything, but they're all dead. So who's the second lot? I just stood at the window and thought ... I mean my assumption was that there were going to be mass casualties. As the absence of casualties began to appear, first of all that was very puzzling, very odd."Once again Blair made the decision to go before the cameras to calm the nation's nerves. But this time his call for people to stay at home had an unforeseen consequence. "It was one of those lovely pieces of irony, that the timing meant that the message 'Stay where you are' was deeply damaging for the underground, because their drivers took it as a message to stay where they were." Blair had to go back on TV shortly afterwards to encourage tube staff to go to work.By the following morning the Met had CCTV images of all four alleged terrorists but the hunt for the men was about to be overshadowed by events at Stockwell. At around 10am on Friday July 22, a team of armed officers fired seven bullets into Menezes's head. Blair says he heard of the shooting about half an hour after it happened. "But, of course, the initial view coming through would have been that this is a suicide bomber." When did he find out they had killed an innocent man? "I think some time that next afternoon. Yes, because I was here on the Saturday, I think. I think by the Saturday morning, mid-morning, I began to find out." Does he remember how he heard the news? "I think somebody probably, yeah, Alan Brown, who is the gold commander, came in and told me. And it's awful. Absolutely awful. The only difficulty as one goes through it, and this will obviously be a matter for an inquiry, is ... you give me the other option. When people say we don't want this policy, well, I don't want it either, but what's the alternative?"I wonder how he reacted personally to the killing of Menezes. "Things were moving at such a pace, that this, as I said earlier on, absolutely awful death, was a paragraph in a novel that was moving at huge speed. It's awful that we shot somebody, it's awful that he was completely innocent. But we've got to ... I knew what the mechanisms for dealing with it would be and we would sort it all out and so on. My concern remained absolutely on what we were going to do with these four people, where were they and what were they planning to do next."Later, we talk about the dramatic day of arrests that Blair had called "close to genius". He explains how he heard on Friday morning that one of the suspected bombers had been "housed" in Notting Hill along with another man who was suspected of being the so-called fifth bomber. "And we had a view that once we'd got them housed, the only thing we could do was to take them. And you do sit here with a slight feeling of, you know, when you've just agreed all that, you know that some cops could die doing that."That afternoon Andy Hayman called with the news that the final member of the alleged ring had been picked up in Rome. "He's a pretty quiet chap, but I think there was a certain amount of jubilation there. I rang him the next morning, and it's the first time I've ever rung him to find that he was asleep." I wonder if he thinks the spectacular success in rounding up the 21/7 suspects will help rescue the Met's reputation from the stain of 22/7. "Yes," he says, "although I think you've got to remember ..." There is a long pause before he continues: "There will come a time of accounting for Menezes's death, which will at that time not be obscured by other events. So we have to understand that."Transfixed The accounting begins earlier than Blair can have imagined. A week after our meeting, a number of devastating details are leaked from the IPCCto ITN. A soldier whose task was to watch the block of flats where Menezes lived had been relieving himself when the Brazilian emerged from it. Contrary to earlier reports, Menezes had not fled from officers when challenged or vaulted a ticket barrier at Stockwell. Nor was he wearing the bulky jacket that earlier accounts suggested had given him the appearance of a bomber. In fact he had been restrained by the surveillance team by the time armed officers arrived and fired seven bullets into his head and one into his shoulder. To make matters worse, if that were possible, it was also revealed that within minutes of the Stockwell disaster, Blair had written to Sir John Gieve, the senior civil servant at the home office, seeking to avoid an IPCC investigation of the shooting. The inevitable clamour for his resignation followed.By November, Blair is striking a more contrite note on the Menezes affair, which he now pronounces with a practised Portuguese lisp. He acknowledges that the Met made "a serious mistake" by failing to correct reports that the Brazilian had behaved suspiciously, even though, he insists, none of these reports had come originally from Scotland Yard. "Clearly the Met could have taken the decision on the Saturday when we recognised that we had killed an innocent man, we could have put the record straight. Although we did put the record straight by saying he wasn't connected, we didn't put the record straight about all the issues around him jumping over barriers and heavy coats and so on ... In a terrible way, the Met was transfixed on other things. It was transfixed on: where are these bombers? And therefore, in a dreadful way, we didn't see the significance of that. That was our mistake. It was. It was a bad mistake."At a press conference more than five hours after the shooting, Blair maintained that the "operation was directly linked to the ongoing terrorist investigation" and that "the man was challenged and refused to obey police instructions". I wonder how it can have taken 24 hours to discover the mistake. He replies that the truth about Menezes emerged in a series of stages that did not individually establish his innocence. "Did we find some identification? Yes, we did. Next question, is it his identification, which it may or may not be? And then thirdly, let's say it is, and he is Brazilian, the fourth thing that then has to be established is, fine, but is he a terrorist? Because, of course, we've just had that Argentinian ... bringing a grenade or whatever into Gatwick."So what time did he know the man shot at Stockwell was Brazilian? "I have no idea." I point out that most ordinary people would imagine that alarm bells would start ringing at that point. "I have no memory of knowing him as a Brazilian at all; now that does not mean that other people did not know it or suspect it. This is a gigantic organisation. I'm quite clear that by 7.30 at night we still had nothing that was identifying him ... otherwise we wouldn't have been putting out the messages that we were putting out. So I mean, that's an area of difficulty, and one that I will have to explain."Senior sources at the Met suggest Blair may face even more difficult questions when he is interviewed by the IPCC as part of a separate investigation - "Stockwell Two"- into whether he misled the public over the shooting. "Most senior officers I've spoken to say they knew [Menezes was not a terrorist] on Friday afternoon," a source with detailed knowledge of the case told me. He pointed out that Blair had subsequently insisted in a radio interview that he had not been kept in the dark, "but if he wasn't kept in the dark and other people knew we shot the wrong guy, the only other assumption is he misled the public." But David Blunkett, who, as home secretary, appointed Blair, is among many, but not all fans, who say they find it hard to believe that the commissioner is not telling the truth. "Not everyone likes him and he can be very dour, but he is straight. He is not a liar. He told me things that other people did not."One Met source suggested that Blair had run in to trouble over Menezes because he was attracted to the TV cameras "like a moth drawn to a flame" following his success on July 7. Blunkett put it somewhat more sympathetically: "You've got to take everything into account. There was a huge desire for information and he may well have slipped into needing to be on the front foot and appearing to be completely on top of it, but it is clear now that nobody was on top of what happened at Stockwell station."Blair has shocked some colleagues by using the "r" word in interviews, something considered a no-no for any public figure in the jaws of a crisis. He tells me it would be "arrogant beyond belief" not to think about resigning "if that level of stuff is happening to you ... I had the unnerving experience of the radio alarm going off, you know, as most people do, Radio 4 burbling away and it's two people earnestly discussing whether I should resign before I get sacked. You have to think about it."It is a measure of the intense politicisation of policing that by the time of this meetingthe Menezes affair has already been eclipsed by a new row over the government's bid to allow the detention of terrorist suspects for up to 90 days. By coincidence we meet on the day MPs are to vote on the controversial measure. Blair and other senior police officers have come under fire for appearing to lobby for the government's proposal. But he has a well polished analogy to defend his participation in the public debate. If the discussion was about avian flu, he says, "I would rather expect to hear on the radio and in the newspapers from the chief medical officer."But didn't the Met take things a step too far when Hayman went to Westminster to brief wavering MPs at the behest of the Labour whips? At this point Blair says something extraordinary: "There's a bigger piece going on, isn't there? It's not only about these counter-terrorist measures, it's also about the position of the prime minister. We can't play entirely outside that process." I wonder what to make of this remark. Does it mean Hayman briefed the MPs to help prop up the PM? "No, no, no, I don't mean that at all." I am still not sure whether it was a revealing slip or an unfortunate choice of words.If Blair has a raw nerve it is John Stevens and the perpetual comparisons between incumbent and predecessor. Stevens' memoir, Not for the Faint-Hearted: My Life Fighting Crime, gives a sense of the relationship. Although Blair served as his deputy for two years during which they were regarded as a formidable double act - Stevens the hard man, Blair the brains - the only substantial mention of him is an anecdote about how, on hearing that the prime minister's teenage son had been found drunk in Leicester Square, he had initially misheard Euan Blair as Ian Blair. If relations between the two men were chilly before, they can't have been helped by the headline-grabbing commentary that Stevens has delivered through the summer from the pages of the News of the World. When I ask Blair if he doesn't wish his old boss would put a sock in it, he can't conceal his irritation. "I, um, I'll put it another way. I don't, I ... I fully support the right to, you know, publish or do whatever you like, but it's probably, you know, it made my life, it didn't make my life any easier. But I think that position is now past. I don't feel a sense of a shadow. And I think really ... July was that piece which changed that sense of a brooding presence, as it were, and that's now gone. But I'm not the best person to ask."Going local A few days after that meeting, Blair delivers his Dimbleby lecture declaring ominously that "the sky is dark". He's talking about the new terror threat but his address ranges elegantly from the rise of antisocial behaviour to the modern history of policing. Among the many responses to it, one from John Stalker, former deputy chief constable of Manchester, stands out for its eye-watering savagery. Blair, he writes in the Independent on Sunday, is "soiled goods ... not up to the job ... a weak manager, not a strong leader ... a competenent provincial policeman who had been over-promoted ... a government appendage."When I see Blair later that week he is still shocked by the onslaught. "There is a battle for the soul of the police going on. And a group of people of a different generation see this as the police being led in a direction in which they do not want to go." He says he is "genuinely puzzled, really, about how somebody could write that without knowing me".We are in Blair's Jaguar, whispering through south London on the way to open one of the mini police stations that lie at the heart of Blair's vision of policing. He is never more animated than when explaining why this hyper-local approach - a six-strong team of police officers and their cut-price colleagues, community support officers, in each ward - is the answer to almost all the capital's criminal ills. These Safer Neighbourhood teams have been created in more than 250 of London's wards and by early 2007 more than 600 will have one too.Somewhat improbably, the team charged with eradicating antisocial behaviour from the Waddon ward in Croydon will work from a small office in the genteel grounds of Whitclift public school. A glance inside the bright little office, decorated with white balloons, offers a snapshot of modern neighbourhood policing. On one wall is a whiteboard listing useful numbers. One is the council's fly-tipping hotline. Another is for "anti-terrorism". On another wall there are several mugshots and a notice saying: "Please be aware the following burglary suspects live in the area." Outside in the drizzle, his peaked hat slightly askew, Blair declares that Safer Neighbourhood teams are "the jewel in the crown of the reinvention of policing".But the visit reveals as much about Blair as it does about his ideas on policing. With the officers of his new Safer Neighbourhood team he is stiff, even awkward, filling the silences with the sort of comically remote questions ministers ask when visiting factories. But later, taking questions from a group of the school's sixth formers, he looks in his element. He talks about how "the word policy and the word politics probably have the same Latin root" and delivers a brief history of "the policing settlement across the western world". The boys are enthralled. Later, I ask Blunkett why Blair seems to struggle to connect as well with his own staff. "They need loving," he says. "And maybe Ian doesn't love everybody."The reckoning One year on, how has Blair done? When I ask him to score himself out of 10 this time, he refuses. Instead, he reels off what he considers a series of clear achievements: Safer Neighbourhood teams in every London ward by the end of the year, with falls of crime of up to 25% in some that already have them, a 20% reduction in murders across the city, total crime numbers falling, improved detection rates, better "victim satisfaction". He talks excitedly about crime reaching "the tipping point". He thinks he's started to shift the culture and perception of the Met, too: for the first time last month more than half of applicants to become police officers came from minority groups, unthinkable in the dark days of Macpherson. At the same time, he says, he is poised to implement his three-year reform plan that will push "hundreds of millions of pounds" into frontline policing. (Critics point out that while the Met's performance on serious crimes such as murder is impressive, its overall clear-up rate is still woefully low at around 18%, and a recent report by Her Majesty's Inspectorate of Constabulary rated the force's handling of so-called "volume crime", such as mugging, as "poor".)By the time I speak to Blair for the last time on Thursday afternoon, the storm around his remarks about instutional racism in the media is beginning to gather force and he sounds weary. "I'm getting more and more conscious of the fact that this position is becoming public property. I'm looking back at the year and realising it is increasingly difficult to be open about my views."Has Blair emerged from the shadow of Stevens and won the respect of his own officers? One senior officer offered a withering assessment: "It's got worse, if anything. The management board are completely disunited-stroke-dysfunctional. It's every man for himself." But Griffiths, charged by Blair with producing the Met's new statement of values, predicts his boss's low-key style will ultimately prove more effective than his predecessor's brio. "People are finding he's consistent, a straightforward speaker who tells you the bad news as well as the good. With John Stevens it was all good, all a raging success. It's not like that." Cindy Butts, the deputy chair of the Metropolitan Police Authority, tells me she thinks Blair has done "reasonably well". He had "taken the majority of the workforce with him," she says, "and he's done well at trying to look ahead and be strategic and visionary about where he wants the police service to be. " But before hanging up, she volunteers a story about how Blair invited her to his office for a chat before he was appointed commissioner. "One of the things I said to him was that in all the previous years I had worked with him, I never really got a sense of who he was." She paused, for a moment. "And I still don't know who he is".