David Blunkett, the home secretary, is to make a fresh push with police chief constables to take officers out of police stations and put them out on patrol.Mr Blunkett plans to use the publication of the second national police plan in November as a vehicle to encourage more police forces to adopt single patrolling and high visibility policing. His latest initiative follows a string of efforts by the Inspectorate of Constabulary and the Home Office to reduce bureaucracy and encourage police on to the streets. The appointment of a tougher Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Mark Oaten, and the Conservative promise to recruit an extra 40,000 police over eight years is putting political pressure on the Home Office to increase the number of officers on the streets. Mr Blunkett has already suggested new democratic structures could make the police more sensitive to the public's demand for higher visibility policing. He told the BBC yesterday: "I am going to be examining over the next few weeks how it is we have got 36,000 more police than we had 30 years ago, and we have got fewer of them on the streets. "We really have got to get together with chief constables and the commanders." He claimed as home secretary he had "quite limited powers", pointing out he did not have the authority to order chief constables and commanders at basic command units on how to operate their police service. "My job is to resource, to provide the powers to encourage coordination and above all to help the reduce bureaucracy." Downing Street remains frustrated that crime rates have been falling overall for many years, but fear of crime remains obstinately high, largely because of a lack of visibility of police on the streets. Successive academic studies, including work by the Audit Commission have questioned the effectiveness of bobbies on the beat in detecting crime, but the political imperative to increase the visibility of the police is growing. At the Labour conference Mr Blunkett announced record police figures of 136,386, an increase of 9,000 since Labour came to power in 1997. In addition, he will have shortly overseen the recruitment of nearly 4,000 community officers, taking the number of police and support staff to almost 200,000. The Inspectorate of Constabulary reported in a document entitled Open All Hours that the percentage of police on patrol was only 56%. It also found that only one police force had undertaken any serious risk analysis of police patrolling alone as opposed to in pairs. A police bureaucracy task force, chaired by David O'Dowd, made 52 recommendations to reduce police bureaucracy, many of them incorporated in last year's police reform act. But MPs remain frustrated that the extra police, and cuts in bureaucracy are not producing the right results. This year's multi-agency analysis of the street crime initiative conducted in the six months to October 2002 in 10 different police areas also found that high visibility policing had been effective in reducing street crime. The initiative cut street crime by 16 % and street robbery by 25 %. Mark Oaten of the Lib Dems said: "The government has got to unbind the police from paper work and let them patrol rather pen push."