A man and woman were arrested today in connection with an attack on a 26-year-old woman who was stabbed in the neck in front of her toddler, police said.The arrests follow an appeal this morning by police trying to trace a blue Peugeot car that was seen speeding towards the area where Abigail Witchalls was stabbed on Wednesday afternoon on a quiet, private footpath in Little Bookham, Surrey.Detective Superintendent Adrian Harper said a man, 28, and a woman, 29, were arrested after voluntarily going to Leatherhead police station in Surrey. A blue Peugeot has been seized and officers were trying to establish whether it was the same car that was seen in the area around 20 minutes before the attack.The man and woman were detained in custody at a police station in Surrey. Det Sup Harper said the arrests were an important development but added that he did not want anyone to "come to the conclusion this investigation is over".Ms Witchalls suffered a single three-inch stab wound to the back of her neck when she was pushing her 21-month-old son in a buggy. Det Sup Harper briefed the media on the arrest shortly after informing the victim's family, who have been with Ms Witchall's at St George's hospital in Tooting, south London.The attack, which police are treating as attempted murder, has left Ms Witchall on a life support machine and her family fear she may be paralysed. Police said earlier that there had been a "slight improvement" in her condition and she was stable but was still heavily sedated and in a critical state. Det Sup Harper, who is leading the inquiry, told a news conference this morning: "Her family is with her and we are monitoring her condition. It is still critical and it's very difficult to communicate with her. It's very difficult at this time for us as police to engage with her." He read a statement from her family, which said: "We are experiencing intense pain and sorrow at what has happened. We ask everyone to join with us in prayer for Abigail and live in hope for the future."