I am not surprised that the adult learning inspectorate has found education in prison to be so wanting - although I have to say the biggest influence on my own development in prison was my access to a very good and rounded education. But things were so different in those days. I remember it took me a while to get motivated, as I'd had limited formal education during my formative years. The prospect of attending "classes" as an adult was a daunting one, not least because, like many prisoners, I had such a poor view of my potential educational ability. I needed a lot of encouragement, which luckily I got.Support, at first, came from the wing psychologist in my first long-term prison. Unlike now, wing-based psychologists in those days (we're talking the 1980s and early 1990s) operated a call-up system for new arrivals. "Call-ups" meant one-to-one assessment interviews. These would take place intermittently and every so often "wing boards" would take place, comprising the psychologist, wing probation officer, deputy governor, a prison officer and the education manager. This group of individuals would write reports based on their interviews and observations and these would form the basis of the monitoring of progress. The psychologist in my case strongly recommended that I undertake some educational activities and the education manager concurred. There was no obligation for me to attend classes, but with some gentle coaxing I was persuaded to give it a try."It's been some time since I did this," I told the teacher of the first class I'd been on since leaving school for good with no qualifications12 years earlier.For most of the time my studies took place in evening classes, or in my cell during bang-up - but I managed to progress from GCSEs to an Open University degree in seven years. By then I'd been in prison for 10 years and had come to consider the education department of a prison as the last bastion of rehabilitation.But prison education departments have never been large enough to cater adequately for the extent of the need on the wings. The expansion of the prison estate throughout the 1990s did not help matters. New wings were built on the grounds of one prison I was in, which had a small, but exemplary education department. The teachers took a holistic approach. Arts and other creative activities were deemed to be as valuable as strictly academic subjects and all levels of ability were catered for. The needs of some of the students were such that the role of the teacher was often combined with unofficial counsellor. I know of one man who I'm certain would not be alive today if it was not for the care, patience and perseverance of the teachers in that particular department. Inexplicably, once the new wings had been added, effectively doubling the population of the prison, the education budget was slashed by 13% - a decision that defied reason. But it set the pattern for years to come. Since then education in prison has been comprehensively transformed. The emphasis now is on "basic skills" provision, with compulsory attendance from all new arrivals. Opportunities for higher education still exist, but generally speaking are harder to access than they used to be. Perhaps worst of all, confidence building creative activities have all but disappeared from the syllabus of most prison education departments, with drama, pottery, creative writing and such having been demoted to the status of "hobby," to be undertaken in the prisoner's own time.I believe education in prison as I experienced it, transformative as it clearly was, to be the most effective method of bringing down rates of re-offending. But unless there is another overhaul in the way education is provided in prison soon, I'm doubtful that future adult learning inspections will find much to be optimistic about. · Erwin James, who spent 20 years in prison, writes a column for the Guardian.