Jeannie was just 18 and married for less than a year when her husband began beating her. For almost a decade, she lived in fear of a man she says was "controlling, vicious, and whose behaviour was psychopathic". He beat her regularly, putting her in hospital many times. Estranged from her family and with small children to bring up, Jeannie felt "totally isolated". What made matters worse, she says, was living in a close-knit, rural community, which made it difficult to talk openly about family problems. "There was no one for me to talk to. Absolutely no one. When I ended in hospital, I was simply patched up and sent home again." Now in her early 60s, happily married to another man and with the years of abuse long behind her, Jeannie is one of the 200,000 members of the Women's Institute campaigning for the voices of rural victims of domestic violence to be heard.The WI, which in recent years has swapped its jam-making image for campaigning on tough social issues, ranging from mental health in prisons to chemical pollution, has championed the struggle against domestic violence for some time. Today, it is calling for the government to launch a national public information campaign to raise awareness of the problem and the particular difficulties that women in rural areas face. It will also demand better local facilities for women at risk, and will recommend training for GPs to help them identify women affected.Jeannie, like others in the WI who are attending its annual meeting today in London, is determined to use a new piece of research to show that rural domestic violence is a hidden problem.The research, carried out by Bristol University, surveyed almost 5,000 women in urban and rural settings (536 were WI members). It found that although the occurrence of domestic violence was similar everywhere, women in rural areas assumed it was more of a problem in cities. They were also more likely to be concerned about confidentiality if they came forward to ask for help, and wanted better local services to help those in trouble. "The main distinction between rural and urban women was in terms of isolation and lack of services in rural areas, including transport for women to reach and use existing services," the report concludes.The WI chair, Fay Mansell, says domestic violence remains a hidden issue in many areas: "Many victims do not speak out, due to fear and shame. We want people in all communities to acknowledge that violence is there and takes many forms - not just physical abuse. It is time the government launched a campaign to end violence against women." Lack of servicesNicki Norman, deputy chief executive of the charity Women's Aid, praises the WI research for drawing attention to the additional problems women in rural communities face. She points out that these often intensify their sense of isolation. "This is then exacerbated by the lack of available services, with a quarter of local authorities in Britain still having no specialist service for women at all," she says.As well as awareness campaigns, long-term funding for specialist support services for rural women and their children needs to be bolstered, Norman says. "Over the last few years, investment by the government has focused mainly on criminal justice responses to domestic violence. Without a requirement from central government to address violence against women at a local level, services will diminish. Domestic violence is an issue for every community, and funding must be made available so that access to safety and support is not dependent on which area women live in."Kate Webb, research and campaigns officer at the WI, says the research was carried out because of growing awareness that little was known about the problems of victims of domestic abuse outside towns and cities. "Because of our background in rural areas, a lot of politicians and policy-makers were asking us what the specific issues were," she says. "But, when we looked, we realised there was very little research on this subject."Although the government has launched some good initiatives around domestic violence, Webb says, until now little was known about how aware rural women are of the help that is available. The WI research found that women are largely ignorant of even basic services such as the national domestic violence helpline, an easily accessible telephone service that could be a reliable first port of call for isolated women. The research shows that statutory and voluntary services alike need to "think local" and consider more imaginative approaches, including outreach services, to find women who need them, Webb says. "It's not just about what services are available. It's about making sure women know what is available and where."A spokesman for the Home Office, which is leading the government's domestic violence strategy, says everyone has a responsibility to address violence against women and girls "within our families, within our communities, at our places of work or study, and within our society at large". He adds that government "recognises that raising awareness of violence against women (which includes physical and psychological harm)" is critical to raising awareness and preventing harm in the future. "We welcome this report from the National Federation of WIs, which provides valuable information on how best to target such work," he says. "A cross-government consultation, launched by the home secretary, has just ended on violence against women and girls. It is the biggest consultation this country has seen on this issue. It has been very high-profile, and the government engaged with the public, frontline professionals and service users to inform a cross-government strategy." Now a deputy chair of her local WI branch, Jeannie believes that more publicity about the fallout of domestic violence on women and families is essential."I don't know why the message still isn't getting through," she says. "The WI is a big organisation, with thousands of members, and it is right that they speak out on this issue. There's strength in numbers, and I really think we have a chance of being listened to."• Details of the WI domestic violence campaign are at theWI.org.uk. The national domestic violence helpline is 0808 2000 247Women on topEver since the WI slow-handclapped Tony Blair's speech on "traditional values" at its annual meeting in June 2000, its public perception as women who just make jam or knit has well and truly altered. However, what is perhaps less well documented is the degree to which the organisation has thrown itself into campaigning and lobbying on issues that are far removed from its conventional image. Domestic violence has become a key plank of the organisation's campaigns, culminating in this year's push on the issue along with membership of the End Violence Against Women (EVAW) coalition. Other campaigns include:Mental health in prisonsA focus since a member brought the plight of women in prison with a mental illness to the annual meeting's attention. The WI has been lobbying for policy changes that would prevent people with mental health problems being placed in prison instead of a mental health facility.Climate changeA growing area of interest for WI members, covering issues such as the link between women in developing nations and climate concerns, as well as galvanising women in the UK to campaign on environmental matters.Protests and democracyEncouraging women to vote; protests against closure of community hospitals and local post offices; involvement with adult education projects; allying itself with bodies working on renewable energy issues.