Prisons have to be built with walls sufficiently high to stop inmates getting out. But that security also prevents us from seeing what is going on inside. Those who are free tend not to care how the 80,000 behind bars live. Prisoners have, after all, forfeited their freedom through some antisocial act. It is not fashionable to see the perpetrators of crime also as victims.But even the most austere advocate of punitive justice would agree that a system is not working when two-thirds of those who come out of it reoffend. These people are not necessarily irremediably villainous. They have been let down. Their months inside have been squandered. We all pay the price for this sad waste of time.Last week, The Observer spent a day behind the high walls of Britain's biggest prison, Wandsworth, in south London. There, we found decent staff struggling valiantly to create a humane environment that encourages rehabilitation. But the odds are stacked against them. Drugs are easy to come by and chronic mental illness often goes untreated. A handful of corrupt officers is enough to undermine the hard work of the majority.Overcrowding means that prisoners are constantly on the move, never forming stable relationships of trust and respect with their jailers and often alienated and aggrieved by being transferred far from their families.Often, minor offenders, those guilty of non-payment of fines, for example, are given custodial sentences which are wholly counterproductive. These short stretches are often just enough to cost someone their job, their relationship and their home, teach them some tricks of the trade and acquire a drug habit. They graduate into society as fully fledged criminals.But by far the biggest problem is the failure to equip prisoners with skills they can use after release. There is no shortage of will to learn. The few places on vocational courses are massively over-subscribed. Governors report young men desperate to go straight on release, but unable to find jobs or even homes and falling quickly back into bad habits. There is no co-ordinated interface between employers and the prison service to help released offenders.When Labour came to power, it promised a New Deal to get the young unemployed back to work. It delivered on this pledge. Our prisons are full of young people desperate for jobs. They need a New Deal of their own.