Poor regulation, inadequate staff training and a lack of supervision created an "ideal environment" in which nursery worker Vanessa George could abuse children in her care, a serious case review concluded today. The regulator Ofsted was criticised for not picking up concerns about Little Ted's nursery in Plymouth, where George sexually assaulted infants.Members of the Plymouth Safeguarding Children Board, which carried out the review, found the inspection regime was a "tick box" exercise and called for the government to look at the way checks are carried out by the regulator.The board also called for the government to examine the way community-based, privately-run nurseries like Little Ted's are run to make sure they are monitored properly and staff are well trained.George had been guilty of "inappropriate behaviour" before she was caught, including showing members of staff adult pornography and boasting about her sexual exploits. Because she was a senior worker, other staff did not feel able to challenge her, the review found.George, 40, from Plymouth, was jailed last year for abusing toddlers. Using her mobile phone, she photographed children in her care as she abused them and shared the images with her accomplice, Manchester businessmen Colin Blanchard.Four women, including George, and Blanchard have been convicted of making and sharing images of abuse. Prosecutors said they were part of "one of the most sickening paedophile rings this country has seen".No parents were present when an executive summary of the serious case review was published today but they were shown the details at a meeting last night. Many were said to be "angry and frustrated" that the inspection regime was inadequate.Jim Gould, the board chair, called the case "unprecedented and shocking". He said weak management at Little Ted's had led to poor safeguarding practices at the nursery but said the inspection regime needed to be strengthened.Gould said the board would send its findings and recommendations to the Department for Education and would try to ensure they were acted on, but he admitted it would be foolish to believe such a crime might not be carried out again.Another board member, Bronwen Lacey, director for children and young people at Plymouth city council, said parents were "frustrated and angry that the inspection regime appeared to be more of a tick box exercise than getting to the heart of what was the day-to-day management practice."They were struggling to understand why Ofsted thought it was a "good" nursery when staff from the council's early years advisory service, which had regular contact with Little Ted's, were concerned about management there. The problem was, the review concluded, that there was no effective mechanism for the advisory service to pass on its concerns to Ofsted.Lacey said: "Ofsted are very independent and their mode of operation is to come and make judgment independently of anyone else to report what they see. That is flawed. There is good local knowledge and intelligence that will add to the picture."She said officials would now go straight to Ofsted even if they were not officially supposed to. Legislation had been brought in that would have given the council power to cut off funding to a nursery it had concerns about.Chief Superintendent Andy Bickley, of Devon and Cornwall police, said parents of children who attended Little Ted's remained "resilient". He said police still did not have sufficient evidence to say which of the children had been abused by George, who is serving an indeterminate prison term.The review concluded there was "weak governance" at Little Ted's, which closed after George's crimes emerged. There was an "informal recruitment process" and a "lack of formal staff supervision".The 39-page executive summary reported: "The environment enabled a culture to develop in which staff did not feel able to challenge inappropriate behaviour by George. Staff working at the nursery became increasingly uncomfortable and worried about George's behaviour but felt they had nowhere to go with these feelings."George showed adult pornography to other staff at the nursery, the review revealed. "The escalation of [her] inappropriate behaviour should have prompted a response by the manager of the nursery but it did not do so. There appears to have been a complete lack of recognition of the seriousness of the boundary violation and a culture within a nursery where explicit sexual references in conversations were the norm."The report also described how George had got private access to children when she changed their nappies in a cubicle. Though the door was left open, her body blocked the view of other staff.Also highlighted in the review was the "danger of mobile phones within day care settings". At the time of the offences, nurseries were advised not allow mobile phones on their premises - Little Ted's clearly did.Ofsted promised to study the report and its recommendation for closer cooperation with local bodies. Patrick Leeson, director of education and care, said: "At Ofsted we take our role in the inspection and regulation of nurseries extremely seriously. We undertake inspection as set out in the relevant legislation and our staff will always seek to get an accurate picture of what is happening in a nursery at the time of inspection."Some of the issues raised in the report require a wider debate on roles and responsibilities within the early years sector. It is important that lessons are learnt from this case."He added: "Ofsted will always investigate concerns raised about the quality of provision and safety of children at any nursery.  Anyone can raise concerns including local authorities, parents and staff."Before the report's publication, one parent of a child who was at Little Ted's told the local newspaper, the Herald: "I want to know how it happened, how no one ever knew what went wrong and what changes are they going to do to make sure it can't happen again."