John Reid is rarely stupid and never as crude as his critics suggest. He will use police cells, old army barracks and other devices to keep the creaking system working as prison numbers edge past 80,000 towards the 100,000 mark that they may - on current trends - reach by next election day.He will even stump up financial support - not cash, as some tabloids will claim - to house, train and reintegrate foreign prisoners who go home, many to countries where they do better: Denmark's reoffending rate is half ours. The pity is that prison overcrowding prevents much of that sort of thing happening here.But as Nick Pierce, ex-No 10 policy wonk, now head wonk at the IPPR thinktank, said last night: "There are only two solutions to this problem: build your way out of the crisis or develop a strategy for using prison effectively and wisely" in combination with non-custodial sentences.It is the kind of alternative the lord chief justice tried out incognito at the weekend. "Pretty foul work," Lord Phillips concluded. Gordon Brown will not finance both strategies: it is either prison or rehabilitation. Like most British home secretaries, Mr Reid knows that (he hinted as much), but like the others the public and media mood of retribution prevents him from taking the softer option.After David Davis, the Tory ex-future leader, played politics with the reoffending statistics, it fell to his Liberal Democrat counterpart, Nick Clegg, a likely successor to Ming Campbell, to play the statesman. With one in 10 prisoners acutely mentally ill, why not concentrate more on secure mental health units? And why not "pluck up the courage" to make the non-custodial case? he asked.It was clearly not the day for Mr Reid, who may have leadership calculations of his own, to do that. Yet he noted that David Blunkett's 2003 Criminal Justice Act had given judges two new weapons: tougher, indeterminate sentences for hard men, community orders for small fry. They had embraced the former more than the latter with predictable results: overcrowding.