Mr Michael McNair-Wilson, Conservative MP for Walthamstow East, is urging the Home Secretary, Mr Carr to make it clear to people attacked by muggers what steps they are entitled to take in their own defence. He wants a ruling on whether people are entitled to use pepper-sprays or even CS gas cylinders in self-defence when attacked. Mr McNair-Wilson has tabled a question for Mr Carr to answer on May 3. This asks whether he will introduce legislation defining the means of self-defence which a citizen may legitimately use when attacked. "With all these cases of mugging, and attacks on women, and so on, I think some people feel they would like to be able to protect themselves rather better than by just using their fists or their feet," Mr McNair-Wilson said yesterday. In New York, it was even possible to buy little cannisters of CS gas, which could fit into a woman's handbag. There were also dye sprays, and blank cartridge pistols. But, Mr McNair-Wilson said, if some serious injury resulted from their use on attackers, would the persons who used them be liable to prosecution? He wanted the Home Office to think again in these dangerous times about what were the reasonable measures for any private citizen to be able to take. Mr McNair-Wilson thinks the Home Office should review the permissibility of methods of self-defence which disabled an attacker on a short-term basis but would be harmless in their long-term effects. One of his constituents had been approached by three muggers in a local park. Lying in a gutter was a broomstick which the constituent had used to drive off the attackers. In cases like this, Mr McNair-Wilson said, it should be possible for the Home Office to rule more clearly on the methods the attacked citizen was able to use. He could not accept the argument that if ordinary citizens carried pepper or CS gas, then muggers would, too. "A lot of muggers carry it already anyway," he said. "I have had some experience of it when it was thrown in the House of Commons, and it certainly got into my throat though it did me no permanent harm." There had been cases, he said, where people attacked had used weapons against their attacker and then been prosecuted for it. "This seems to be a nonsense," he said. The area of means by which people were allowed to protect themselves was a grey one, but could, and should, be clarified.