It was the way of Stevens Nyembo-Ya-Muteba to worry about his family. He was a genial, unassuming but stocky man, 40 years old and standing at 6ft. He seemed able to look after himself.What worried him during four years on the Holly Street Estate in Hackney was the safety of his wife, Veronique, and their two small children. The thought preoccupies her now, one month after he was stabbed to death outside their home, allegedly for asking a group of young people loitering outside to be quiet.Stevens's death on an estate championed by New Labour as a symbol of urban regeneration prompted a national debate about public safety and antisocial behaviour. Veronique, as she struggled to come to terms with her loss, did not join it.But this week, three weeks after his funeral, she spoke for the first time of her life with the brilliant and courageous student and of her wish to make sense of his death by joining forces with others who have lost loved ones to knife crime."He would have wanted me to do something," she said. "There is so much pain and suffering and for what? Whoever did this has taken away the man who was my world and the father of my children. Whoever they are, they have somebody. I have nobody for me or for my kids. They have to grow up without their dad and I have to find a way to go on. We were both very religious but I have told my pastor that I don't know if I can ever pray the way I did before because I cannot understand why God would do these things to me. I am so hurt, but also so angry."The night Stevens died Veronique told Debbie, seven, their eldest daughter, of what had happened. Despite the enormity of what she was being told, the little girl seemed to understand. But Sheridan, four, hair bunched in pigtails, has yet to absorb the implications of the tragedy. As her mother spoke, she entered the room clutching a family photograph and pointing at an image of Stevens. Veronique, 29, hoisted her up and hugged her. "I am trying to tell her that Daddy has gone to heaven," she said. "But she hasn't taken it in. She thinks he is coming back."Since the stabbing on October 1, two youths have been charged with murder. Four others have been arrested and bailed to return.All the information Veronique has about the night in question is secondhand because she left home three hours earlier to attend a friend's party. Stevens, who had also been invited, felt unwell and did not go. But Veronique had cooked for the event and so left at 6.15pm with the girls.She returned home some time after 10.30pm to find the block taped off by police. She said: "The police asked if I was his wife and told me had been stabbed. They said he had been taken to hospital because he was critical. As we got there, the police who had travelled with him were just leaving. They told me he had died and I asked the police to let me see him. They said I was in no state to see him and that they needed to clean him up. I stayed there until three in the morning."Stevens Nyembo-Ya-Muteba's life said much about the hope, the ambition and the familial priorities that drive so many of the recently arrived immigrants to Britain. An engineer, he moved to London in 1996 from his home in Congo after his role as a student activist at the ISTA Institute in Kinshasa brought him to the attention of the authorities. His father, also an engineer, helped smuggle him out of the country. He had already been seeing Veronique, whom he met in 1992 while working as a photographer. Her family were not told how close the relationship had become because they thought she was too young to have a boyfriend and her father, a chief bank inspector, was keen for her to finish her studies. She completed a teaching diploma in 1997 and married Stevens that year but the blessing was, in English terms at least, unorthodox. Because he was in London and could not return home, his younger brother, Kaya, stood in at the ceremony as a proxy. The bride, pretty and slight, joined him in London in 1998.Both learned English and threw themselves into their studies. She enrolled at Kingston University to become a radiologist in the health service. He was offered a place in 2002 at Cambridge University but decided to stay in London. When he died he was in his third and final year of a BSc in maths and finance at the University of Greenwich.He was a full time student, but also a full time worker. "He worked so hard and he told everyone that he was doing it for his family," said Veronique. "He drove a forklift truck for Tesco at a depot in Essex from 10pm until 5am and then came home, had a couple of hours sleep and went to college. It was tiring but he said he liked his life here. He said there were opportunities here. He said if God gives you the opportunity to do something you should do it. He wanted to be somebody. He also wanted the best for me. He encouraged me to study. Very few men in his position would have been so supportive."A week after Stevens' death Veronique and the children led more than 100 people on a memorial march in Hackney. Since then she has had discussions with Patrick Vernon, a councillor who runs Every Generation, a black community website. They have tentative plans to form a network for families bereaved by knife crime, similar to Mothers Against Guns.But first they must deal with more pressing demands. The family live in temporary accommodation, away from Holly Street where Stevens was killed. They do not know where they will go next. He died without life insurance.Her faith eschews hate but the scale of her loss makes it difficult to believe in absolutes. "I don't know if I can forgive whoever did this," she said. "I am not someone who hates people. But I hate what they did."