Lee Rigby, the British soldier murdered in the street in Woolwich, south-east London, last week, died of multiple incised wounds, police have confirmed.The results of the postmortem were released a week after Rigby's death, as police made an appeal at the scene of the killing for witnesses to come forward.Commander Simon Letchford of the Metropolitan police said: "Seven days ago Lee Rigby was murdered in an act of violence that was shocking and horrific. Our thoughts are with Lee's family and friends at this very difficult time for them."A fast-paced and complex investigation is now under way led by detectives from the Met's counter-terrorism command."As part of that investigation, officers are asking for the public's help. We need to hear from anyone who may have seen Lee being attacked or who may have any other information that may help."Officers gave out leaflets to passing pedestrians as well as motorists who stopped at traffic lights. The leaflet urges anyone who knew the two suspects, Michael Adebowale and Michael Adebolajo, or who saw a blue Vauxhall Tigra with the registration number N696 JWX in the area to come forward.One week on, the scene of the attack remains a shrine to Rigby, described by his family as "our hero". People continued to visit the scene on Wednesday to leave flowers and messages paying tribute to Rigby, from Middleton, Greater Manchester, who served with 2nd Battalion, the Royal Regiment of Fusiliers, in Afghanistan.Amid heightened tensions which have seen a surge in Islamophobic incidents, Letchford called for unity in the capital."I'd like to thank the public for all their help and support so far," he said."This has been a difficult time for everyone in our city. What is important now is that we, as Londoners, come together. I would urge people to continue to show restraint and calm as our investigation continues to bring those responsible for Lee's death to justice."Adebowale and Adebolajo were both shot at the scene of the murder near Woolwich barracks. Adebowale was discharged from hospital and taken into police custody on Tuesday, while Adebolajo remains in hospital. It emerged on Wednesday that three firearms officers involved in the shooting of the men suspected of the murder could be back on duty within weeks.Eight other people have been arrested in connection with Rigby's death. Hayden Allen, 21, held on Saturday on suspicion of conspiracy to commit murder by detectives from Scotland Yard's counter-terrorism command but later released on bail, said on Wednesday he had "no prior knowledge of the atrocity that happened last week and I played no part in the incident or the lead-up to it whatsoever".Allen's comments came after relatives of Adebolajo released a statement sending their "heartfelt condolence" to Rigby's family, saying there was no place for violence in the name of religion.Police officers searched a number of properties in south-east London after Allen's arrest. One of them is understood to be his parents' home in Thamesmead.