Ever since he can remember, Douglas Preston, the American crime novelist, wanted to live in Italy. In 2000 his dream came true. With his wife and two children, Preston rented a farmhouse outside Florence, unaware of the gruesome events that had once taken place amid the nearby olive groves and unspoilt hills.Because the US press had never covered the case, Preston had not heard of the "Monster of Florence", who, between 1974 and 1985, murdered seven courting couples in the countryside. Soon he learned that one attack occurred in an olive grove outside his front door. While appalled at the grisly nature of the crimes, he realised this had the makings of a sensational book. "It was like being struck by lightning," he recalls. "It's the most incredible crime story I ever heard. For a while I wondered if it was true and not just made up."He befriended one of Italy's most respected journalists, Mario Spezi, an authority on the case, which he had covered since 1981. As chief crime reporter for the region's leading newspaper, La Nazione, Spezi was usually one of the first to arrive at the scene after the Monster had struck. He was unprepared for the savagery he witnessed. Attacks always took place on moonless Saturday nights in remote spots near Florence, frequented by lovers. The couples were shot in or near their car while making love, and then stabbed. The women lay naked, their vaginas cut out with horrifying precision; sometimes a breast was removed; some were mutilated in other ways. The pistol used in all the murders was a .22 Beretta with a defective mechanism that left identical markings on every shell. The knife used to butcher the women bore an unusual indentation.The case has become one of the longest, most expensive and most complex criminal investigations in Italian history. Up to 100,000 people have been questioned by teams of investigators and prosecutors, who include a special "Anti-Monster squad" comprising police and carabinieri. The gun was never found, but in 1994, 69-year-old Pietro Pacciani, an illiterate, alcoholic farm labourer with a record of rape and domestic violence, was tried for the crimes and sentenced to life imprisonment, despite a lack of forensic evidence and only unreliable accounts that he had been seen at some of the crime scenes. An appeal court overturned his conviction in 1996; a retrial was ordered but Pacciani died in 1998 before the trial date. That year, two male acquaintances of Pacciani's were imprisoned for involvement in the murders: one has died; the other is gravely ill in a secure hospital.The case seemed closed. But in 2001, Commissario Michele Giuttari, recently appointed to head a serial crimes squad, announced a new lead suggesting the murders had been planned and carried out by members of a satanic sect. Police and prosecutors in Florence and Perugia, where a parallel investigation was under way into the suspicious death of a local doctor suspected of involvement with the sect, claimed that the murders were carried out at the command of a "mastermind" in the group. Rumours spread about a "Villa of Horrors" where, Giuttari claimed, "a group of respectable citizens above suspicion", including Florentine magistrates, doctors, academics and aristocrats, attended occult rituals involving the use of women's sexual organs. Undeterred by lack of proof, police have continued their search for the "mastermind". Their latest suspect, Francesco Calamandrei, a retired pharmacist, was recently charged with being the Monster of Florence and is expected to stand trial.Preston was appalled as investigators touted conspiracy theories, casting suspicion on many individuals whose private and professional lives were consequently destroyed. Forensic evidence, he noted, was almost non-existent due to bungled police procedures. "The original evidence-gathering was terrible. The killer left no DNA. Several items at the scene were contaminated or lost. That means nothing can be forensically re-examined."Eventually he and Spezi, who has many contacts among carabinieri and criminals alike, decided to write a book on their findings, which included a secret report by the FBI's behavioural science unit, commissioned by the Italian police, which concluded that the murders were likely to have been committed by a lone, highly self-possessed psychopath. Spezi believed the killer was one of several suspects investigated in the 1980s. The Italian publisher of Preston's murder mysteries, Sonzogno, commissioned their book, Dolci Colline di Sangue (Sweet Hills of Blood), for publication in 2006. Spezi wrote the Italian manuscript, which Preston, who returned to the US in 2004, would translate into English. One of their goals was to expose the failings of the various investigating teams and to challenge the claims of a satanic ring made by Perugia's public prosecutor, Judge Giuliano Mignini, and Commissario Giuttari, himself a thriller writer and, more controversally, the author of two books on the Monster of Florence.It wasn't until their collaboration that the authors had an inkling they were under surveillance. At 6am on November 18 2004, Spezi, his wife and daughter were woken by the doorbell. Police brandished a search warrant signed by Judge Mignini. For seven hours they ransacked Spezi's apartment, confiscated his computer and discs containing the unfinished book, his files, correspondence, address book and contact sources. They also took a black stone doorstop, identical to those used in many Tuscan homes, which police suspected of being an occult relic. The family had to endure three subsequent searches. Eventually, Spezi read a newspaper report claiming he was under investigation for the Monster murders. At that point he emailed Preston: "It is like a hallucination. I feel I am trapped in a film of Kafka's The Trial, remade by Jerry Lewis. I am afraid of what tomorrow might bring. I am afraid every time the doorbell rings.""Once, they [the police] came looking for guns," says Spezi, a rugged, cheerful, white-haired 61-year-old. "I never owned one. But instead of thoroughly searching every possible corner they only looked in certain places, which is senseless." He would only speak to me face to face in Florence because he says all his phones (including that of his daughter, who lives in Prague) and his email are intercepted. "The search warrant stated I attempted to obstruct the murder investigation by casting doubt on police methods on a TV programme. How would that obstruct an inquiry? They also said I had shown an unnatural and suspicious interest in this case. Unnatural? In my job?" he smiles wryly. He later received an official document stating he was under investigation for 17 undisclosed crimes.This year, on February 14, Douglas Preston arrived in Florence for a short break to help correct the proofs of their book. Spezi had just heard from Luigi Ruocco, an ex-convict, that the man he suspected of being the monster had been seen at a dilapidated barn where he apparently kept a .22 Beretta, perhaps the murder weapon, and other suspicious items. Recalling Spezi's excitement, Preston says: "He was also in a quandary. He wanted to do the right thing. The barn is in the grounds of a large villa near Florence. He didn't want to go there alone, or to trespass, so thought it best to phone the police and pass on what he'd heard. If they found anything, he hoped they would tell him first so he'd get a scoop".The next day, Spezi and Preston, accompanied by a contact - a retired police officer who is now a security consultant - drove to the villa, which has a shop selling wine and olives. The public car park was open, but the shop was closed. After walking around for several minutes they left without seeing anything suspicious. Preston realised Ruocco had conned Spezi. "That lowlife crook extorted several hundred euros by feeding him a false story."On February 22, Preston's phone rang as he walked to a cafe in Florence. "It was a detective saying he had to meet me immediately. We met at the Palazzio Vecchio in the Piazza della Signoria. In the portico, officers from Commissioner Giuttari's unit handed me a summons to appear at the public prosecutor's headquarters in Perugia the next day for "routine" questioning. I was told it was obligatory. If I didn't appear they would arrest me."The next day he appeared before Judge Mignini and the same policemen; a stenographer recorded the proceedings. Without a lawyer or translator present, Preston was grilled for three hours, in Italian, about his relationship with Spezi, their book, their sources, their recent visit to the villa. "Mignini asked why we went there. Where did we walk? Had I ever taken my eyes off Spezi? I told the truth, but I'm not fluent in Italian and began to stumble and stutter. I saw that they believed I was lying and had caught me out. I felt sick. I thought, my God, I'm in serious trouble here. They'll put me in jail."Mignini repeatedly asked the same questions and played a tape recording of a casual phone conversation Preston had with Spezi days before. "He replayed and stopped the tape over and over after every phrase, demanding what we 'really meant', as if we were speaking in code." He felt under pressure to confess to a crime he hadn't committed. "He said we had either planted or planned to plant a gun at the villa in order to frame an innocent man, and deflect suspicion from the real killer - Mario Spezi." Preston was warned this made him an accessory to murder. Horrified, he continued to deny the accusations until Mignini announced he would be charged with perjury, but the investigation was suspended to allow him to leave Italy.The next day Preston returned to the US. Since then, the charges have increased: they include criminal libel, attempted obstruction of a police investigation and other, secret charges. On advice from the State Department, he has hired an Italian lawyer at huge expense to defend him. He was advised not to return to Italy, or any EU country, to avoid the risk of arrest or extradition. Spezi was shocked that an American citizen could be subjected to such procedures. "It meant Giuttari and Mignini were deadly serious, and an attack on him could not be far behind," says Preston.Spezi was right. In February his car was broken into, his radio stolen. He took the car to be repaired, and his garage found sophisticated bugging equipment attached to the radio wires. Police eventually admitted installing the device and returned his radio. Incensed, Spezi filed a civil action against Giuttari for violation of his civil rights. On April 7 police from Giuttari's unit arrived at his home. As he came outdoors he was ordered to get into their car and driven away. "They refused to say why. They had no arrest warrant," says Spezi. When he asked where they were taking him, he was told it was none of his business. As he took his mobile phone to call his lawyer, it was confiscated. "After going to Giuttari's headquarters I was taken to the prison in Perugia. For more than six days I was alone in a tiny cell and refused contact with my wife Myriam or my lawyer. When Myriam came the next day with a change of clothes, they didn't give them to me."Judge Mignini ordered Spezi to be held under a special custodial law used for the detention of Mafia leaders, terrorist suspects and other dangerous criminals. This allowed the authorities to interrogate him for six days without access to legal counsel. After every interrogation he was required to strip naked and do push-ups. A request for his release after a week was refused. In the US, Preston alerted reporters, websites and human rights groups, calling it "the worst abuse of state power I have ever seen in a western European country". A protest campaign was led by the New York-based Committee to Protect Journalists, which conducted its own inquiry before writing to senior politicians, members of the judiciary, and the then prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, condemning the miscarriage of justice. On April 29, an appeals tribunal ruled his arrest illegal and ordered his release. It was a blow for Mignini and Giuttari. Spezi and Preston's book had been published on April 18. The US rights were auctioned for $450,000.Spezi, still under investigation for crimes including slander, perjury and obstruction of justice, has yet to remove the prison numbers stamped on his wrist: they are a mark of a greater injustice. "No public figure has openly denounced not just what happened to me, but the whole investigation."Public opinion is turning, however. Recently, other judges have criticised Mignini's handling of the case. There have also been demonstrations. "The case of Spezi and Preston casts a heavy weight on the international image of our country," says Stefano Marcelli, president of Italy's media campaign group Information Safety and Freedom, "and risks relegating us to the bottom of any list defining press freedom and democracy."When I met Giuttari, he insisted Spezi was guilty of planting false evidence at the villa. "Preston did not tell the truth," he says. "Our recordings prove this. Spezi will be prosecuted." He was mistaken. Shortly afterwards, Spezi phoned to tell me that Italy's highest court, the Tribunale di Cassazione, had just dismissed the proceedings against him. "A enormous load has been lifted," he said. "I am a free man."Although the case against Preston remains unresolved because the accusations against him have never been before a court, it seems unimaginable that he can remain under investigation for long.