The Metropolitan police has recommended that a request by two of the suspects in the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence to be re-housed should be turned down. Patricia Acourt, the mother of Neil, 23, and Jamie, 22, of Blackheath, south-east London, asked for the family to be moved after receiving what they said was a threatening letter from an anti-racist group. Yesterday Greenwich council said a request from the Acourts' solicitor alleging harassment had been received. All requests to be re-housed on the grounds of harassment were passed to the police, who were asked to evaluate the risk. 'The police have not supported their request on the basis of harassment.'  It is understood the police did not consider the alleged threats to be real enough to warrant re-housing. It was the council's duty under housing law to continue to look into the claim and Mrs Acourt would be asked to attend an interview.The Metropolitan police yesterday said: 'It would be inappropriate for us to comment on such security matters.' The council could not confirm if a third Lawrence suspect, Luke Knight, 23, had also asked to be re-housed. No request had been made in his name, although a spokeswoman would not rule out the possibility that the request could have been made by somebody he was living with.  According to press reports Knight is suffering from 'psychological problems' and is worried about the safety of his girlfriend. Stephen, aged 18, was murdered at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993 by a gang of white youths who screamed racist abuse before stabbing him. In 1996 Neil Acourt and Luke Knight, along with Gary Dobson, were the subject of a private prosecution by Doreen and Neville Lawrence, Stephen's parents. But the judge at the Old Bailey directed the jury to acquit the three after crucial evidence was ruled inadmissible. The council said the housing department was working 'flat out' to sort out problems caused by the accidental publication of names of police informants in the appendix of the Stephen Lawrence report. So far 11 families and individuals had asked to be moved and all had been accepted for a transfer. Six families had already moved, three were being processed, and two others involved moves outside Greenwich and were being sorted out. Many other households had asked for extra security measures. 'When people come forward we are treating their requests very, very seriously.'  By the time the mistake in the appendices volume was noticed, copies had been sent to the five murder suspects or their solicitors. Hundreds more had been sold with the main report through HMSO book shops.