The killers of teenager Becky Watts are appealing against their convictions and sentences. Nathan Matthews, 28, was sentenced to a minimum of 33 years for murdering Becky, his stepsister. Shauna Hoare, 21, was jailed for a minimum of 17 years for the manslaughter of the 16-year-old. Bristol crown court heard the pair targeted Becky due to their dislike of her and a shared sexual interest in petite teenage girls. They took tape, handcuffs and a stun gun to her home in Bristol on 19 February and let themselves in when they knew Becky was alone. Becky suffered more than 40 injuries before she was smothered to death by Matthews. He then, along with Hoare, dismembered her body with a circular saw in the bathroom of their home, also in Bristol. Matthews was found guilty of murder by a jury, while Hoare was convicted of manslaughter. Both were convicted of conspiracy to kidnap, perverting the course of justice, preventing lawful burial and possessing two stun guns. The trial judge, Mr Justice Dingemans, was in tears when he spoke of the “immense burden” suffered by Becky’s family as he sentenced Hoare and Matthews on 13 November. On Thursday, a court spokesman confirmed the pair had lodged an appeal against all of their convictions and sentences. Jurors heard how pornography found on a laptop and phones owned by the couple revealed a shared sexual interest in teenagers and threesomes. Facebook messages in which the couple discussed kidnapping schoolgirls for sex revealed the motive behind Becky’s death, the judge said. Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare: dark fantasies became reality “I am sure, on the evidence that was adduced at the trial, that the planned kidnap of Becky was for a sexual purpose,” he added. “The false suggestion given by both of them during the trial, namely that these texts were just banter or pandering to tastes, shows how much their understanding of where proper boundaries of conduct began and ended had become corrupted and warped.” Matthews will be 61 before he can be considered for parole, with the judge noting he “might never be released”. As he began cutting Becky’s body into eight pieces, Hoare texted him “lol” as she sat with his worried mother, Anjie Galsworthy – Becky’s stepmother. The couple also listened to a parody of a Disney Frozen song, entitled Do You Want to Hide a Body, while Becky’s remains lay in their bath. Matthews and Hoare told police officers and Becky’s family they had heard her leave home on 19 February. “Their deceit of the family was particularly cruel and unusual, and the family’s sense of betrayal by Nathan Matthews and Shauna Hoare is both understandable and justified,” the judge added.Victim impact statements were read to the court on behalf of Becky’s father, Darren Galsworthy, and her mother Tanya Watts. Galsworthy said: “These family members sat in our home knowing what they had done and watched my very public descent into madness and despair. “They said nothing and carried on with the pretence of helping us and showed no emotion at all.” Watts spoke of seeing her daughter in the mortuary, with bandages wrapped around her body to hide where she had been dismembered. “I often hear myself talking about Becky and asking questions about her death but it is like I am talking about someone else, not my baby girl. It is surreal,” she said. “But the actual reality is those people who were involved in Becky’s murder, dismemberment and concealment have left us with a lifetime of emptiness, continuing nightmares of her final moments and a grave to visit.” Karl Demetrius, 30, and Jaydene Parsons, 23, who admitted helping Matthews hide Becky’s body parts in their shed, will be sentenced in February.