So, there is life after jihad – apart from spending eternity in the company of 72 virgins or lecturing for the Quilliam Foundation. Yesterday, Mohamed Mostafa, a son of Abu Hamza, and Mohsin Ghailan, Abu Hamza's stepson, were jailed for their part in a million-pound luxury car scam.I first came across them 10 years ago when their dad was a firebrand preacher at Finsbury Park mosque in London but had not yet attracted the attention of the world's media (or, indeed, the security services).In December 1998, 16 adventure tourists on a trip to Yemen were kidnapped by the "Islamic Army of Aden-Abyan", a virtually unknown armed group later recognised as a local branch of al-Qaida. Yemeni troops tried to rescue the hostages and in the ensuing shoot-out four of the tourists, including three Britons, were killed.A few days later the Yemeni government claimed, without further explanation, that the kidnappers, as well as their victims, had a British connection. This sounded utterly bizarre at the time but I decided to check Yemeni newspapers on the internet in case they had more information.One of them – the official mouthpiece of "the armed forces' moral guidance department" – had a report in Arabic illustrated with a fax from Abu Hamza's Supporters of Shariah organisation. The fax reproduced in the paper was tiny but I could see it was a communique issued by Abu Hamza's group on behalf of the Islamic Army in Yemen. I could also just make out what appeared to be a website address. I printed the image and after enlarging it several times in the photocopier I could read "www.ummah.net" followed by a slash and something that was too blurred to read.Without the full address I couldn't access the web page but, looking at it again, I thought the blurred bit probably consisted of three letters. What could they be? Suddenly it clicked and I typed the letters s-o-s, the initials of "Supporters of Shariah".Their website was astonishing. Along with a picture of a hand grenade, it advertised "military training for brothers" at Finsbury Park mosque and named "Sarmad" as the person to contact, together with a mobile phone number. Sarmad wasn't answering his phone, though: he was already under arrest in Yemen.The story, published on the front page of the Observer two days later, marked the start of Abu Hamza's media notoriety.Abu Hamza regarded Yemen, after Aghanistan, as the country best suited for jihad. He was also a friend of Abu al-Hassan, the leader of the "Islamic Army", whom he had apparently met in Afghanistan.Towards the end of 1998, 10 young men associated with Abu Hamza (including his son and stepson) set off for Yemen on jihad. They made contact with the Islamic Army and, according to the Yemeni authorities, were planning to bomb a hotel, a church, a supposedly gay restaurant, and other buildings in Aden. However, several of them were caught when police stopped their car for going the wrong way around a roundabout, and the plot began to unravel.They were an incompetent bunch and Abu al-Hassan of the Islamic Army seems to have been far from enamoured with them, judging – perhaps correctly – that they were a group of enthusiasts, in it for kicks. At one point, he warned Abu Hamza's son that jihad was "a difficult path, covered with thorns and blood, requiring a lot of patience". In the Islamic Army's training camp, he taught some of them to use a Kalashnikov but kept them away from more serious weapons.Their behaviour in detention after their arrest puzzled the Yemeni authorities because they didn't behave like typical religious fanatics, or even particularly devout Muslims. They demanded food during the fasting hours of Ramadan, and Ghailan, when asked his religion, initially replied: "None."Following their arrest, Abu al-Hassan, apparently working in collusion with Abu Hamza, decided to kidnap a passing tourist group. This was a common occurrence in Yemen at the time and up to that point hostages had always been released unharmed, usually after the government agreed to meet the kidnappers' demands.In this instance, Abu al-Hassan was seeking a prisoner swap – the captured tourists in exchange for Abu Hamza's lads – and he called Abu Hamza on a satellite phone to discuss the next steps. Exactly why the Yemeni army intervened so dramatically to rescue them (when it hadn't done so in other kidnaps) or who fired the shots that killed the tourists has never been entirely clear, though Abu al-Hassan was eventually executed for murder.Meanwhile, the "bomb-plot Britons", as they became known, were put on trial in Yemen and jailed. All protested their innocence and their trial was rather a shambles, leading to a campaign on their behalf by some Muslim groups in Britain. Whether – barring their premature arrest – they would actually have caused murder and mayhem on a grand scale in Aden, we shall never know. But clearly they were up to no good and had not gone to Yemen, as some of them claimed, to learn Arabic.I spent a lot of time in 1999 covering the story, and also trying to work out what motivated them. I felt at the time that they were mostly bored no-hopers looking for excitement, and when Abu Hamza took them under his wing they didn't quite realise what they were getting into. In that respect they were not very different from the kidnapped tourists, who had travelled to Yemen in search of some exotic adventure and got more than they bargained for.The car scam for which Mostafa and Ghailan have now been jailed was on a different track but probably had a similar appeal: it was the sort of thrilling wheeze you might dream about one night after watching The Italian Job. But, as in Yemen, they tried to do it for real, made mistakes and got caught. They just didn't have the cheeky charm or the panache of Michael Caine to carry it off.