I strongly disagree with the suggestion that William Roache and Dave Lee Travis have been properly brought to trial (Comment, 14 February). Keir Starmer is betraying whatever legal education he received by his partisan views. Limitation periods under the law of England and Wales are laid out by the Limitation Act 1980, and are the periods of time during which an individual can bring a private (civil) claim, or else lose the right to bring it. The reasoning behind this, which has its origins in Roman law, is that firstly someone with a good cause of action should pursue it with reasonable diligence; secondly that a defendant might have lost evidence to disprove a stale claim; and thirdly that long-dormant claims have more "cruelty than justice" in them (Halsbury's Laws of England, 4th edition). So English law says that it is contrary to "public policy" for people to be perpetually exposed to litigation for allegedly wrongful acts. As time passes, witnesses' memories may fade, or become distorted, and documentary evidence available to do justice to the case is less likely to be available, or in certain cases even exist. It is recognised this may prevent justice being done, and for a great many years it has been accepted that it is in the public interest that claims become barred by statute after a certain period of time has elapsed – usually six years.Unfortunately, and at present, this applies only to civil claims, and in England and Wales, and not to criminal cases despite the fact that many countries, including the US and Canada, which have similar legal systems, do apply limitations to criminal cases. The cases of William Roache and Dave Lee Travis surely show that trials of "stale" allegations made about events decades ago indeed have more cruelty than justice. Is it not time for parliament to add appropriate provisions to the Limitation Act? I would suggest that there should be no prosecution unless the offence has been reported to the police within six years of it allegedly taking place, or in the case of offences against minors, within six years of their attaining the age of majority, ie by their 24th birthday.Neil JopsonMilton Keynes, Buckinghamshire• Keir Starmer's response to the acquittal of Dave Lee Travis is simply inadequate. False allegations of sexual offences cause both the innocent victim and their family untold and lasting hurt, emotional, financial and physical. Worse, every false allegation contributes to discrediting women who have suffered real attacks. The police and the Crown Prosecution Service must reconsider their actions in the interests of all women who have been assaulted, subjects of false allegations and all their families.Fiona FlintBanbury, Oxfordshire• An investigation two years ago by the CPS and Home Office concluded that false allegations of rape were extremely unusual: of every 161 rape prosecutions, there was just one related to a false allegation. I am very surprised to see the Guardian swallowing these figures whole and regurgitating them unquestioned (Editorial, 14 February). Out of 5,651 prosecutions for rape, there were 35 prosecutions for perverting the course of justice or wasting police time – that's where the "1 in 161" comes from. But for the CPS to bring a prosecution there has to be "a reasonable prospect of conviction". That's why many rapes that really did happen are not prosecuted, and for the same reason many cases of false allegation never come to court. Some false accusations of rape lead to a wrongful conviction. The accusers in these cases will never appear in the Home Office statistics. The figure of 1 in 161 applies only to rape, not to all the other charges of less serious forms of sexual assault, where false allegations are even easier to make.The source of the figures also needs to be taken into account. The Home Office does, after all, want us to believe that our system delivers justice, and as far as I know, ministers have not pledged to increase the rate of conviction for false allegations, whereas they have for rape. So police forces will get brownie points for a successful rape conviction but not for a charge of perverting the course of justice. The real figure for false allegations is undoubtedly much higher than 1 in 161. How much higher? I don't know, and neither do you, but it would be good to see one of your investigative journalists looking into it.Richard BunceFareham, Hampshire