Guidelines for teachers and college lecturers on how to detect whether a pupil has been forced into marriage will be sent to schools and colleges next month, the government said today.The guidelines - based on advice that has already been issued to police and social workers - will also advise on how to tell the difference between forced and arranged marriages, with the plan being announced as the Home and Foreign offices launched a new joint unit, the Forced Marriage Unit (FMU), to tackle forced marriages.Police and other agencies believe forced marriage is the greatest pressure exerted on young girls in some communities. Some so-called honour killings have been linked to young women rebelling against forced marriages, and the police last year announced they would reinvestigate hundreds of reported disappearances, suicides and missing persons in an effort to find out the scale of the problem in Britain.Today, the home secretary, Charles Clarke, said one third of cases of forced marriage involved children under the age of 18. He said launching the unit was an "important step to tackling forced marriage in this sector of public life"."Forced marriage is nothing less than an abuse of human rights," Mr Clarke said. "It can involve serious forms of duress, including physical assault." Honour crimes, ranging from emotional and physical violence to imprisonment, rape and murder, have that name because the victims are perceived to have done something to dishonour their family and the wider community. These perceived causes of dishonour could be being seen talking to a boy in the street, refusing an arranged marriage or going to college.Experts point to the high suicide rate among Asian girls aged between 15 and 25 as evidence that violence against them remains undetected. Today's guidelines include advice on how pupils at risk can be identified and how to get them help. They say the homework of people forced into marriage could suffer, and pupils may be anxious, depressed and emotionally withdrawn. They may start harming themselves or develop substance abuse.Teachers are also told to watch out for any family history of older siblings leaving education and marrying early. They are advised to get in touch with either police, social workers or the new government unit, which can be contacted on 020-7008 0230.Ministers today renewed their commitment to launch a consultation exercise on whether to create a new criminal offence to deal with the problem of forced marriage.Last October, officials said a special unit within the Foreign Office had dealt with almost 1,000 cases of forced marriage since being set up in 2000. The Foreign Office minister Baroness Symons said the department had also rescued and brought 70 young people a year back to the UK from overseas. She said that, although the issue was often assumed to affect only women, 15% of cases identified by officials involved men and boys. The new unit will have a staff of six and an annual budget of £300,000, Most cases of forced marriage originate from south Asia, but British officials have also seen examples from east Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Officials have dealt with cases involving Muslims, Hindus, Sikhs and Christians, Mr Clarke said.