The public "hue and cry" about high-profile crimes creates a "grave danger" of miscarriages of justice, Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, warned last night. The judge who is expected to head the new supreme court said: "It puts great pressure on the police to find a culprit. No police force wants to be publicly portrayed as having failed in its duty. But excessive pressure to produce results brings its own dangers, as the bitter experience of a series of notorious miscarriage of justice cases has shown." Lord Bingham said that even if the jury could clear their minds of all they had seen and read about the case: "It must sometimes be very hard for a defendant to believe that he is appearing before the independent and impartial tribunal to which the law entitles him, and enjoying the fair trial which is the birthright of every British citizen". In an apparent sideswipe at the government's latest criminal justice reforms, he said it was "regrettable" that criminal justice had become so highly politicised. It encouraged "a belief that the connection between the administration of criminal justice in the courts and the prevalence of crime in the community is much closer than in truth it is". Delivering the Ditchley lecture at Ditchley Park in Oxfordshire, he said it was easy to exaggerate the effect of severe sentences on criminal activity. "It is an unhappy fact that only a relatively small minority of offenders are ever caught. So the deterrent effect of knowing that if a crime is committed retribution will follow is greatly weakened." Lord Bingham said many criminals "do not weigh up the pros and cons of their proposed criminal conduct in anything approaching a rational way. They are often of very low intelligence, or fired by drink or drugs, or temperamentally inclined to live from hour to hour." Technical changes in evidence and court procedure had "at best a very indirect effect on the incidence of crime". He said a growing unwillingness to accept that judges exercised their sentencing powers in the interests of the public, and with considerable experience and information to guide them, was "one of the sadder features of the contemporary scene". The caricature of the judge as "an elderly ogre lashing out savage sentences on meek and somewhat unthreatening defendants" had changed almost overnight to one of "flabby do-gooders unwilling to punish anyone, except perhaps the victim, for anything". He added: "I think it worth observing that we are and always have been a very punitive society. The level of sentences here is significantly higher than in neighbouring countries of western Europe. "There are more life-sentence prisoners in this country than in the rest of western Europe put together. I venture to wonder if the solution to our problems really lies in an endless succession of massive criminal justice bills." Lord Bingham said that at one time judges could make a ruling and parliament could overturn it, but that rule no longer applied when the UK had obligations under EC law and international treaties. Referring to government plans to reform the system for appointing judges, he said it was "a blemish of our system" that there were so few women and ethnic minority judges. But he warned against "an ill-considered switch to a career judiciary", with judges appointed young and working their way up instead of spending long years in practice as lawyers first - a move which he said might "serve no public interest save that of the Treasury".