The detective leading the murder inquiry into the death of a teenage Muslim girl has spoken of his frustration at the reluctance of potential witnesses to come forward.The body of Shafilea Ahmed, 17, was found earlier this year beside a river in Cumbria. Police say she had been murdered, although they have been unable to determine the precise cause of death. Shafilea had previously swallowed bleach in an apparent cry for help after being introduced to a potential suitor while on holiday with her family in a Pakistani village. She vanished from her home in Warrington in September 2003, a day before she was due to have hospital treatment on her damaged throat. Her parents, Iftikhar Ahmed, 44, a taxi driver, and his 41-year-old wife, Farzana, a housewife, were arrested and questioned on suspicion of kidnapping their daughter, amid press speculation that she was the victim of an "honour killing". They were later released without charge and have continued to maintain their innocence of any involvement inher death. Fifteen months after she vanished, the investigation is continuing. Cheshire police have interviewed more than 2,000 people as part of their inquiry and have identified 200 members of Shafilea's extended family, most of whom live in Bradford or Pakistan, and have contacted many of them. Earlier this year, her parents stormed a press conference to insist they had been the victims of racial stereotyping by the police and media. But detectives say they have sought to be sensitive to their culture and refuse to call the crime an "honour killing". "The problem with honour killing is it can be used in mitigation to explain to a jury that it was someone protecting their honour and it was manslaughter. What we are investigating here is murder," said Detective Chief Inspector Geraint Jones, who is leading the inquiry. Eight members of Shafilea's extended family have been released on bail until February on suspicion of perverting the course of justice. Mr Jones said: "The parents have never been eliminated as suspects. "All through this inquiry it has not been easy. We have found people, rather than people telephoning us and offering information. It can be quite frustrating. I don't know why people do not phone us. It can be disappointing if someone knows something which could be useful." Mr Jones said Shafilea was bright, friendly and witty. "She wanted to be a lawyer. She was a well-liked, decent, law-abiding girl." Warrington has a small but well-established Asian community. In Bradford, however, the remaining tension from the city's riots of three years ago could explain the reticence of her family members there to come forward. The teenager's badly decomposed body was discovered by chance on February 4 by workmen close to the flooded river Kent at Sedgewick, near Kendal, partially concealed in undergrowth. A pathologist was unable to establish the cause of death.