Major changes in the rules of evidence in criminal trials, including the use of hearsay evidence, bad character and witness statements, are to be unveiled by ministers as part of an overhaul of the courts and sentencing.Internal leaked Home Office papers also confirm a plan to introduce the disclosure of relevant past convictions to juries under its reform of the rules of criminal evidence in a white paper this April. "Legislating in this area is a clear priority for the Prime Minister. [Lord Justice] Auld recommends a general review of rules of evidence, based on the principle of trusting fact finders to give relevant evidence the weight it deserves," say the official papers. The papers say the review must be finished by February so that legislation can proceed in 2002/2003. Lord Justice Auld was responsible for the government's inquiry into the criminal courts system. The papers also reveal that Lord Justice Auld's proposal to set up a new youth court - with a judge and two magistrates - to try all grave cases against young defendants may prove "highly controversial". The civil servants say it will mean "the end of public jury trial for 16- to 17-year-olds". The papers also confirm that ministers plan to restrict a defendant's right to choose trial by judge and jury in some cases. The civil servants warn that plans to replace crown courts and magistrates courts with a new three-tiered unified criminal court will prove "highly controversial" because the new intermediate tier will mean defendants in more cases also losing the right to trial by judge and jury. Some estimates claim that the number of jury trials could fall by as much as 70%. Ministers will weigh up the proposals in February and March, with legislation to be introduced next autumn in a massive 400-clause bill. The shake-up had been postponed to make way for the new anti-terrorist measures. The civil servants warn that the reform of the rules of evidence may prove as controversial as the jury trial changes. In Labour's election manifesto the government said the rules of evidence failed to "trust the good sense of judges and jurors". The Whitehall papers admit that plans to make hearsay evidence generally admissible in court as well as witness statements "are likely to cause controversy and will need careful consideration." Other major court reforms, such as restricting jury trial, extending prosecution rights of appeal and reforming the double jeopardy law, are to be published in a draft bill in advance "because they are controversial and would benefit from pre-legislative scrutiny". Home Office civil servants have told ministers that such "advance drafting" of changes in the law on criminal evidence is "inadvisable for practical and tactical reasons." On allowing hearsay evidence to be generally admissible the government may go against the Law Commission's approach. The leaked papers make clear that Tony Blair, in a letter dated 24 September 2001, had indicated to ministers that he supported the different approach put forward by Lord Justice Auld which "would make hearsay generally admissible subject to the principle of best evidence." Home Office staff also admit that plans to reveal past convictions to juries are backed by Mr Blair who has indicated that juries should be told of a bad character where relevant. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the National Association of Probation Officers, said the reforms would change the face of criminal justice. "The huge loss of jury trials will lead to a higher rate of conviction and therefore more people in custody. Currently half of those put before a jury are acquitted compared with less than 10% before magistrates," he said.