Stuart Hazell has been charged with Tia Sharp's murder. Hazell, 37, the partner of Tia's grandmother, had been arrested on Friday after the schoolgirl's body was found.Scotland Yard said Hazell, 37, would appear before magistrates on Monday. Tia's body was found, reportedly in the loft, at her grandmother's home in New Addington, south London, on Friday. Hazell was arrested in Merton eight hours later.Tia had been missing for seven days and police had searched the grandmother's house three times before finding her body on a fourth search.Hazell was charged late on Saturday night after being interviewed by detectives, police said.On Saturday, Tia's grandmother, Christine Sharp, 46, was also questioned at a south London police station on suspicion of murder, and Paul Meehan, a 39-year-old neighbour, was taken into custody on suspicion of assisting an offender. The pair were released on bail.A Scotland Yard spokesman said: "Although officers await formal identification of a body found at 20 The Lindens on Friday 10 August, the victim is named in the murder charge as 12-year-old Tia Sharp."Two other people have been bailed to return to a south London police station. "They are a 46-year-old woman who was arrested on suspicion of murder and a 39-year-old man who was arrested on suspicion of assisting an offender." A search was launched after Tia was reported missing on Friday 3 August. More than 80 police officers were involved, along with members of the local community, but efforts to find Tia proved fruitless for the first week. Despite searching Christine Sharp's terraced property four times, police only discovered the body on Friday and have apologised to Tia's mother for the delay. A manhunt was launched for Hazell, with officers warning the public not to approach him, before he was detained in the south London borough of Merton after being spotted later in the day. A postmortem examination of the body is expected to resume on Monday. It is not yet known how the girl died.The Met apologised on Saturday afternoon for the "stress and concern" over delays in finding the body. Commander Neil Basu said: "It is now clear that human error delayed the discovery of the body within the house. We have apologised to Tia's mother that our procedures did not lead to the discovery of the body on this search."