"Carrying a knife is not a game," Nathaniel Peat tells year 9 pupils at St Joseph's college, in south London. The words could easily have come from the lips of the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, or the Metropolitan police chief, Ian Blair, but for these teenagers they seem to carry greater resonance coming from Peat.He is young and, like the majority of the 20 pupils he is addressing, black. Peat knows the misery that knives can inflict. The 28-year-old martial arts expert set up the charity Safety Box after the death of Kiyan Prince, a family friend, in 2006.Prince, a talented footballer who played for the QPR youth team, was 15 when he was stabbed to death while trying to break up a fight outside his school in Edgware.Politicians and police officers are desperately searching for solutions to a perceived knife-carrying culture among young people, with 17 teenagers already violently killed in London alone this year, the latest on Sunday.Safety Box runs a series of workshops in schools that are designed to help young people avoid and manage conflict – without carrying a weapon - and to raise their self-esteem.At the Put Down the Knife session, the last in a series of five, the pupils learn how the smallest things can help to deflect a potentially dangerous situation. For instance, they are told that keeping their hands out of the pockets will avoid the impression that they are carrying a knife. Avoiding eye contact with an aggressor is another way to avoid becoming a victim, says Peat.They are warned in no uncertain terms about the potential consequences if they do carry and/or use a knife. The pupils are shown graphic pictures of stab wounds, a tactic the government is using in a new anti-knife advertising campaign.Darrell James, a youth worker and former gang member who served time in Brixton prison, warns the St Joseph's 13 to 14-year-olds that jail is "not for the faint-hearted", and explodes the myth of the "glamorous" gangster lifestyle. Peat hammers home the message: "Would you want to be raped in prison? Would you want to be stabbed in prison?"It may sound too shocking, but the St Joseph's headteacher, Eamon Connolly, disagrees. "I think we underestimate, to be honest, what the children themselves have experience of in their own lives," he says.St Joseph's college is recognised by Ofsted as a good school, and is oversubscribed. But there have been problems with another local school and police community support officers patrol nearby at lunchtime to prevent any potential flare-ups.Connolly has been impressed by Safety Box and believes the background of the instructors earns them the respect of his pupils. "You have got somebody in front of you who actually knows how you feel sometimes. He's in an area where there are difficulties and in an area where to join a gang is part of the culture of the area ... and it shows them how you can break out from that," he says.The workshop is not just about frightening young people into not carrying a knife. Peat repeatedly exhorts the students to have confidence in themselves, fulfil their potential and be "leaders not followers". When he asks the pupils what grades they aspire to, they reply positively: As or A stars."When we started in week one and asked the question 'what do you want to be when you grow up', we had a number of the kids saying 'I want to be a bad man'," says Peat. "In today's session, someone came to me and said he wants to be a flight engineer."David Wilson, a criminologist, recently claimed young people carry knives either because they think it is "manly" or - more often - for protection because they are scared. Safety Box attempts to address both those issues. After learning in the classroom that it is not "manly" to go to prison, the class moves to the gym, where self-defence techniques are demonstrated using plastic knives.Peat illustrates what to do if attacked in a lift or another confined space – a poignant scene given that Arsema Dawit, the 15-year-old stabbed to death last month, was found dead in a lift at the block of flats where she lived. Safety Box emphasises avoidance but recognises that situations may arise where knowledge of rudimentary self-defence techniques could be a potential life-saver.Some of the St Joseph's pupils say they do have concerns about growing violence on the streets. James Gallagher, 13, says Safety Box has taught him "don't get involved in anything".Peat believes the government has got it wrong when it comes to tackling knife crime and says there should be more emphasis on changing young people's way of thinking."It's all about prevention, it's about stopping it before it happens as opposed to prosecuting and locking them away," he says. "It's about inspiring them to achieve, getting into their minds, changing their mindsets so that it doesn't lead them into a life of crime."