A new generation of road surveillance cameras designed to help police intercept violent and serious criminals will lead to more than 200,000 extra arrests a year and significant reductions in car crime, Home Office ministers believe.The digital cameras can capture individual number plates on video at the rate of 3,000 an hour, and cover three lanes of motorway traffic passing at 70mph. The number plates are automatically checked against the police national computer and other databases. Any that match number plates of cars and lorries of interest to the police are immediately passed to dedicated intercept teams who stop the driver. Short-term trial schemes of Project Laser are coming to an end in nine forces; early results have been impressive, with a 10-fold increase recorded in arrest rates among patrol officers, for robbery, drugs, burglary, and vehicle offences. John Denham, the Home Office minister, believes that the nationwide adoption of this automatic number plate recognition scheme could prove a powerful tool to cut crime based on the strong link between those who drive while disqualified or in untaxed cars, and those who commit serious crimes. "By denying criminals use of the road, the police will be better able to enforce the law, prevent crime and detect offenders," Mr Denham said. Ministers hope it will be a key means of hitting the government's target of cutting car crime by 30% by 2004. But the Treasury appears unwilling to finance the £150m cost of the scheme. The police and the Home Office are now pressing the chancellor for permission for the scheme to be financed by extending fixed penalty fines to a wider range of motoring offences and by using the cameras to enforce collection of unpaid road tax and other motoring fines. It is expected that four existing motoring offences - no MOT, no tax, failing to register a vehicle, and carrying illegal number plates - will all become punishable by a fixed penalty fine. The Association of Chief Police Officers has estimated that if the extra revenue from the new fixed penalty fines could be used to finance the scheme, it would be self-funding and put 2,000 new officers on patrol and intercept duties. They also claim it could virtually eliminate all document-related vehicle crime. "There is also clear evidence that, because the offenders are captured on video, which they can see, the vast majority plead guilty, resulting in shorter file presentation times, no requirement for officers to attend court, and less time from arrest to conviction," said an Acpo briefing paper on the scheme. Two initial trials of Project Laser in the West Midlands and Northamptonshire raised the average arrest rates of individual police officers from 10 to 100 a year. In the West Midlands the 12-month trial led to 1,662 arrests, with 34 for robbery, 376 for theft, 27 for burglary, and 200 for drug offences. On top of this, £500,000 of stolen property and 64 stolen vehicles were recovered, 600 defective vehicles were impounded, and 2,000 cases of car tax evasion reported. In the year-long Northampton trial, which ran until April last year, a team of six officers made 665 arrests, including 210 disqualified drivers and traffic offenders, and 95 outstanding warrants. Shorter six-month trials started in September in nine police forces including London, Manchester, Staffordshire, and West Yorkshire. The results will be used to determine whether ministers give the final go-ahead for the scheme's use nationwide. The automatic number plate recognition systems can be used either linked to existing CCTV road monitoring systems or by using mobile units in police patrol vehicles.