A jealous husband has been found guilty of trying to murder his estranged wife by strangling her as she worked as a nurse at an intensive care unit. Royston Jones, who was convinced staff nurse Claire Jones was having an affair, attacked her in front of colleagues at Nevill Hall hospital in Abergavenny, south Wales.Her workmates managed to stop the attack by pulling bare-chested Jones, 39, off his victim, ignoring his untrue claim that he was armed with a grenade. Royston Jones, of Brynmawr in Blaenau Gwent, had taken drugs that day and left his 35-year-old wife unconscious on the floor after the attack. She was taken to the A&E unit at the hospital, where she was treated for a swollen neck and throat, elbow and back injuries.Michael Jones, prosecuting, told Newport crown court on Wednesday that Royston Jones had threatened to kill his wife after she moved out of the marital home. He said: “He was a jealous, possessive and aggressive man who was convinced his estranged wife was in another relationship.”He went to the hospital where she worked, pinned her to the floor and began to strangle her. “He had his hands around her throat and there’s no doubt he was trying to kill her by strangling her. Other members of staff tried to pull him away. He was too strong, however, and continued to try to kill her,” Michael Jones saidOne member of staff tried to hit him with a chair while a consultant was kneed in the head when he tried to wrestle the assailant away. His victim was dragged into another room by her colleagues but Royston Jones came after her again and put her in a headlock in an attempt to choke her. She blacked out.Claire Jones, a mother of three, later told police: “He was like a man possessed. Marching towards me, seething and glaring at me. All he said to me was: ‘You’ve done it now.’ And I said: ‘What have I done?’ He put both his hands around my throat and neck and I was aware of colleagues screaming and shouting around me.“They were shouting: ‘Get off her, get off her!’ I lost consciousness and the next thing I remember is being dragged into an office and a colleague telling me, you’re all right now.”When he was arrested, Royston Jones told police: “I’ll do two years for this. The court better not let me out or I’ll finish the job. I won’t be in jail forever.”Consultant anaesthetist Edward Curtis, who tackledRoyston Jones, who weighed about 15 stones, said: “I saw the man charging. Nurses were screaming: ‘He’s going to kill her.’ I could see Claire on the ground and he was on top of her with both hands around her neck.“Her face was turning to blue-grey and she wasn’t moving and he was saying words like ‘kill’ and ‘die’. I wrestled with him and managed to pull him off but his knee caught me with considerable force and stunned me. He got her in a head lock and tried to strangle her again but I managed to grab his arms.”He said Royston Jones, a jobless delivery driver, was “as strong as I’ve known anyone”, and added: “If I had not intervened, Claire would have died.”Jones was remanded in custody and will be sentenced on 20 February. 