An inquiry into how Ian Huntley, convicted of the murder of schoolgirls Jessica Chapman and Holly Wells, was able to get a job as a school caretaker despite a string of sex allegations opened today.In his opening statement, the inquiry chairman and former Whitehall mandarin Sir Michael Bichard said his primary focus will be how police intelligence about sex offenders was handled, vetting procedures and why information was not shared between the agencies that dealt with Huntley.He will specifically examine how a catalogue of allegations of rape, indecent assault and sex with underage girls in and around Huntley's home town, Grimsby, was not shared between the Humberside and Cambridgeshire police forces.Sir Michael, who was appointed by the home secretary, David Blunkett, said: "Clearly the primary focus of the inquiry will be to look at how information or intelligence was recorded, retained, used, stored and deleted within the framework established by the data protection legislation as interpreted in national and local guidance. "I shall naturally look especially closely at the policies and practices of the Humberside and Cambridgeshire constabularies and their interaction with other agencies. "But I shall not lose sight of the implications of these events for other forces and agencies across the country."Sir Michael, who opened the inquiry with a silence to remember the two Soham schoolgirls murdered by Huntley in August 2002, pledged to ask tough questions and not shirk from criticising individuals and organisations involved in the case.He said: "My task is not to conduct a trial of those associated with the events under scrutiny but to inquire, make findings and draw lessons."My aim, quite simply, is to discover first what happened, secondly why it happened and thirdly what lessons can be learned."Inevitably, my task will involve asking some tough questions and perhaps criticising individuals and organisations. "You can be sure that I will not shirk from that if I consider it to be justified and necessary."Huntley, the former caretaker at Soham Village College in Cambridgeshire, was given two life sentences for murdering the two 10-year-old girls at the Old Bailey on December 17 last year. Concern was raised when it emerged that vital information about Huntley's alleged offences was not uncovered when Cambridgeshire police performed a check on his suitability to work at a school. Humberside police failed to keep records of all the alleged offences, which were not passed on to Cambridgeshire. Humberside chief constable David Westwood said his force believed it was barred under the Data Protection Act from keeping details of nine separate sex allegations against Huntley, including four rapes and an indecent assault on an 11-year-old girl. Humberside officers said they had adopted a policy of "weeding" records because they thought they were required to do so by the act, a misunderstanding described by one MP as "catastrophic". The inquiry will consist of three weeks of public hearings beginning on February 16.Sir Michael was formerly chief executive of Brent and Gloucestershire local authorities and in 1990 became chief executive of the Benefits Agency. In 1995 he was appointed permanent secretary at the former Employment Department and then the Department for Education and Employment. In May 2001 he left the civil service and, in September 2001, was appointed rector of the London Institute, the largest art and design institute in Europe. He will be assisted in the inquiry by Bill Taylor, a former commissioner of the City of London police and Scottish chief inspector of constabulary. Last week letters were sent to relevant parties asking them to provide written evidence on matters relating to their work in the case. Advertisements have also been placed inviting written representations from any other interested parties by January 23. Mr Blunkett has also asked the chief inspector of constabulary, Keith Povey, to review an already completed Metropolitan police inquiry into the Cambridgeshire force's handling of the hunt for the girls' killer.