You reported that police in London have offered a reward to stop female genital mutilation, "the first reward for a general crime rather than a specific case" (Met's unique £20,000 reward to stop mutilation of women, July 11). FGM is a criminal act and a child protection issue, and the law will certainly be made more effective with stronger sanctions and improved incentives.However, bribes and threats will not on their own eliminate this harmful practice. We need to win the hearts and minds of the community and work closely with them. This looks like a moral panic to be seen to be doing something.We must not forget that at the heart of all this are the attitudes of the communities involved. You report that "an estimated 66,000 women and girls in England and Wales have had their genitals forcibly mutilated", and that some campaigners believe this figure "was likely to be an underestimate, due to the influx of refugees from Somalia, Sudan and Sierra Leone, countries with civil wars and with large FGM-practising communities".I work with these communities every day, and my origins in East Africa give me a good knowledge of how harmful FGM is and what it means for the women involved. Our agency's experience with these communities is that heavy-handed publicity or bribery will not eliminate FGM; in fact these methods infuriate and anger them. To encourage people to come forward with information, there should be a more consistent and sustained campaign to put pressure on communities to stop the practice, while giving relevant information to remind those concerned to report any suspicions.Some of our staff and volunteers are themselves victims of FGM, and some had their own daughters circumcised due to pressure from elder relatives who wish to maintain the practice. They are proud of their culture, but now work to educate their communities and others that what they went through should not happen to another child.Slowly, gradually, this education work is having an effect. Attitudes are changing, especially among young men and women, who no longer want FGM to continue; and young parents are now beginning to resist pressures to perform FGM on their children. Even older women whose attitudes are difficult to change are now less likely to recommend the most severe forms of the practice.It is important for everyone to acknowledge these changes and build on them instead of relying on intervention from outside the communities.Statutory agencies and professionals need to work closely in partnership around the country. Frontline professionals need to be fully trained to identify those at risk, with support services in place to encourage those who want to report cases to do so without fear of intimidation. The £20,000 reward could be used towards these and other initiatives rather than simply grabbing headlines.· Sarah McCulloch is national director of the Agency for Culture and Change Management smcculloch@accmsheffield.org