Britain's most senior police officer yesterday denied his force was still uncomfortable cracking down on racism in its ranks nearly five years after a report branded it institutionally racist.The Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, was giving evidence to an inquiry into whether discrimination led to Asian and black officers being investigated and disciplined more than their white counterparts. Sir John was the first witness to face the inquiry panel chaired by former union leader Sir Bill Morris. The tersest exchange came when a panel member, Anesta Weekes QC, asked Sir John to admit that the public believed the Met had "not moved on with getting comfortable with dealing with issues of discrimination". Sir John denied the charge, saying it was important to celebrate the success the force had had in tackling racism since the Macpherson report was published in 1999. The Morris inquiry was set up after the Black Police Association announced a boycott of the force, claiming its members were being disproportionately targeted for disciplinary investigations. The Met spent millions investigating Superintendent Ali Dizaei, who was twice cleared of corruption at the Old Bailey, and wrongly accused Leroy Logan, chairman of the Met BPA, of dishonesty. In a written submission released yesterday Sir John said his officers were so afraid of being accused of racism when dealing with ethnic minority colleagues that they found it hard to admit it when they made mistakes "for fear that by owning up to shortcomings they may themselves become the subject of allegation". "There is a particular nervousness about dealing with issues raised by or about black and minority ethnic staff and officers," he said. The inquiry heard that middle managers were so fearful of race they botched tackling minor indiscretions by ethnic minority staff. These officers were then hampered by a "failure to administer tough love" at an early stage. Sir John suggested a police ombudsman be created to resolve conflicts between officers. He also said the force had too many guidelines and statutes to obey: "In an ideal world I would like to burn it all and start from the beginning."