A “callous and brutal” father who murdered his baby daughter by repeatedly biting, punching and shaking her has been jailed for life with a minimum of 22 years.Aurimas Medvedevas, 23, inflicted terrible injuries on two-month-old Aukse on 5 September last year, the day her mother went back to work for the first time since giving birth.His partner, agency worker Dzesika Urbikaite, 22, returned to their Peterborough home that night to find her daughter dead in a cot.Medvedevas, who is Lithuanian, denied murder, but on the third day of his Old Bailey trial he changed his plea to guilty in light of the overwhelming evidence against him.Jailing him on Thursday, Judge Timothy Pontius said the brutality of the attack on a defenceless baby almost defied belief and the bite marks on her head were “particularly shocking”.He said the fact that baby Aukse suffered considerably for hours before her eventual death “demonstrated a callousness that is as incredible as it is inhuman”.He added: “The murder of any human being is always a tragedy, the murder of a defenceless child of any age, the more so. The murder of a helpless infant only a few weeks old in circumstances of brutality which almost defy belief is an appalling crime beyond comprehension.”Pontius went on: “The responsibility – his alone – for so horrific a crime will, I imagine, weigh heavily upon his conscience for the rest of his life. So it should.”The mother of baby Aukse wept quietly in court as her partner was sentenced.Earlier, defence lawyer Sallie Bennett-Jenkins QC said Medvedevas had shown “heartfelt” remorse for what he had done to his own daughter. She said: “The horror of having realised that his child was badly hurt will never leave this young man. What he does recall is holding her.“He recalls she died in his arms and afterwards he was terrified as to the hurt he had inflicted on her and his girlfriend who he loved very much. He was in a state of utter terror and hurt.”She said the defendant was a loving and caring man who had suffered a “clear mental disturbance”. At the time of the murder he was struggling to find work and, Bennett-Jenkins said, “matters were really at quite a desperate state” financially.Last week, jurors heard of the horrific injuries inflicted on baby Aukse. She survived for up to six hours after the attack and would have suffered considerably while her father did nothing to help her, the court heard.A post-mortem examination uncovered bruises, cuts and abrasions on her body as well as two distinct bite marks on her head. She had significant internal injuries including a deep cut to the liver, five rib fractures, and bleeding on the brain and eyes indicating that she had been shaken.An examination of one of the bite marks showed it matched the defendant’s teeth imprint, the court heard.Prosecutor Karim Khalil QC told the jury: “For reasons known only to him but which may well be rooted in the pressures of home life and his own inability to cope with the change in his circumstances, he took hold of his own baby, he bit her on the head, he struck her repeatedly and he shook her hard. As a result of all that, she died, not immediately, but a few hours later.“As he committed those acts of violence against baby Aukse, he must have intended to kill her or cause her really serious harm. That is murder.”Medvedevas initially denied murder but repeatedly changed his story. After he was arrested, he said he had been in sole care of the baby but denied hurting her. Before his trial, he produced an account claiming the baby must have fallen out of bed and hit her head on the side of the cot while he was beside her in a deep sleep.On the day his original trial was due to start in May, he produced a radically different account, accepting for the first time that he caused the injuries. He admitted murder last Friday after listening to the prosecution case against him for two days.After the sentencing, Supt Jon Hutchinson, of Cambridgeshire police, said: “The appalling nature of this crime has been reflected in the sentence handed down to Medvedevas today.“Medvedevas did not want to look after his daughter and his response was brutally violent. The baby’s injuries were likened to those suffered in a car crash or as a result of being dropped from a one-storey building.“He failed to seek assistance that could have saved her life and then refused to tell the truth on arrest and right through the legal process.“Aukse’s mother is continuing to rebuild her life and I hope the conclusion of the legal process today and the knowledge that justice has been done makes that process a little easier.”