The curtains were drawn. Three minutes after I knocked, four or five thin-looking Chinese men cautiously opened the door. They looked anxious. But as soon as Fujianese was spoken, they smiled. "Come in, come in," one said.Since the Morecambe tragedy, the gangmasters have fled the Liverpool homes where their Chinese workers lived often 40 people to a house. The cockle-pickers remain, however, a lack of cash forcing them to continue living in such barren surroundings. A week after Morecambe, the reality of their loss is sinking in. The bodies of young Chinese men and women are lying in the mortuary waiting to be identified and it is only now that their friends and colleagues, having spent days trying in vain to contact them, have realised they must have been among those who died as the tide swept in. Meanwhile, left behind are Chinese living a fearful, invisible existence. The house's dingy hallway leads to the lounge, a room no bigger than two square metres, the largest in this two-storey home. Here 13 people were watching television. There was no proper furniture, so they either sat on plastic chairs or on the floor against the wall to watch the TV, their only evening entertainment. "This TV is shared between this house and the other one down the street where some other Chinese live," one told me. All but one man - from north-east China - are Fujianese, from rural towns and villages. Most are asylum-seekers waiting for a Home Office ruling on their status."We are not depending on anyone, so we have to find work," one said. Some have been in Britain for more than a year. Others but a few months. Yet they all look tired. "Cockling is too hard work," one said. Most of them worked on the beach before the tragedy. Post-Morecambe, some have moved on, looking for work in London or elsewhere, leaving 13 people to share seven rooms, a situation they are content with. Most of the bedrooms have mattresses on the floors. The lucky few have basic beds. "At least it's cheap. We pay £3 each per week to the local landlord," one said. After the tragedy, the Chinese here feel even more isolated. The "snakeheads" - the real criminals, the people smugglers - are still on their backs. "Some of us haven't paid off the debts [of being smuggled into Britain]. The snakeheads called during the Chinese new year to push for payment," one said. As a result, some are working in the kitchens of Liverpool's Chinese restaurants and takeaways. One said he earns £170 a week as a chef, although he works more than 70 hours a week. "We have to keep our costs down. These days we eat only rice porridge." In reality, the tragedy has further limited work opportunities and pushed these Chinese people even further underground. And it is far from clear what the future holds for any of them. If there is hope, perhaps it lies in the centre of Liverpool, with the generations of Chinese that settled here before them. Perhaps this community can help break their feelings of isolation and help the latest, and perhaps most unfortunate wave of Chinese immigrants to Britain - the undocumented cockle-picker.