The search is on for the missing £30m not yet recovered from the robbery. A team of officers from Kent police working in tandem with civilian accountancy experts in tracing money are looking at a number of potential hiding places.The police have already frozen bank accounts in Morocco and believe that millions of pounds have already been laundered there, and expensive villas and private commercial property acquired with the proceeds of the robbery. Two Mercedes seized there by the local police are also believed to have been bought with stolen money.During the course of the trial, it was suggested that some of the money and some of those involved in the robbery could be in Turkish-occupied northern Cyprus. Because Britain does not recognise the government there is no extradition treaty with the UK. This has led some British criminals to seek refuge there, although the local authorities say they are unwelcome. Some of the money is believed to be in Albania.Kent police said yesterday it was believed that much of the money had already been converted into assets but there was a good chance of tracing much of it over the next year. There is also the hope that, with many of the gang now convicted, some may seek to serve a shorter sentence by pointing the police in the direction of the money.A second trial of four other defendants is due to start in April. Two other men charged in connection with the robbery who cannot be identified for legal reasons are currently in custody abroad as extradition attempts are made for them to be returned to Britain for trial. Another man, who is thought to be on the run in the Caribbean, is also still being sought. Other peripheral figures that the police would like to talk to are still missing.The Crown Prosecution Service has indicated it wants to pursue anyone involved, which means that there could be as many as four Securitas trials eventually.Nigel Pilkington of the CPS said after the convictions that "this is not the end of the matter for these criminals; we intend to seize their ill-gotten gains, wherever they may be."Michelle Hogg, the hairdresser who made the latex masks used as disguises by the robbers and then testified against the robbers, will enter the witness protection scheme and be given a new identity. She is currently under armed guard.The robbery will also become a feature film, based on a book being written on the case by Howard Sounes.The film, like the book, will be called Heist. The production company Oxford Films, which made the 1995 Oscar-winning Restoration, is intending to make a 90-minute drama of the case for Channel 4.