People charged with serious crimes may be given the choice of trial by judge alone without a jury as part of a package of radical reforms to the criminal courts system.Sir Robin Auld, the appeal court judge whose proposals will form the core of a criminal justice bill now being drawn up by officials, is considering the far-reaching change. His report is expected in the autumn. Defendants in Canada and Australia are allowed to waive their right to jury trial. In Canada, those charged with sex offences against children often choose trial by judge alone for fear that juries will be prejudiced against them. In some parts of Canada jury trial is the exception for serious crimes rather than the rule. Judges are thought to be better able to put their prejudices aside and concentrate on the evidence. The right could be seized on by defendants in cases where public feeling runs high - such as the murders of Jill Dando and Lin and Megan Russell - or where there has been adverse pre-trial publicity. Where, as in the Dando case, the evidence against the accused is not seen as particularly strong, his counsel might advise him to waive his right to jury trial. Three years ago the then lord chief justice, Lord Bingham, now the senior law lord, called for the right for defendants charged with fraud, murder, rape and other serious offences to choose to be tried by judge alone "if, but only if, he freely wishes it". In a speech to members of the senior judiciary, he said: "Experience elsewhere shows that such a right, if granted, is sometimes exercised. Such a change might provide a partial solution to the vexed problem of jury trial in long cases of serious fraud. "Provided the exercise of the right were free and informed, I cannot see that any right of individual liberty would be infringed." In the UK, the only incursion so far on trial by jury for serious crimes is the Diplock courts, which since 1973 have tried all terrorist crimes in Northern Ireland by judge alone. They were set up because of the danger of jury intimidation and give the defendant no right to opt for jury trial. The Diplock courts have been controversial but an academic study by Professor John Jackson and Sean Doran of Queen's University, Belfast, found that one advantage was that judges, unlike juries, gave reasoned decisions, making the appeal process easier. There have been calls for juries to be dispensed with in serious fraud cases in England and Wales and replaced by a judge and two expert assessors. Prosecutors have sometimes felt obliged to split complicated cases into more than one trial to make the evidence manageable for the jury. There are concerns that in some cases this may have prevented the court from seeing the full picture of the alleged dishonesty. Laura Hoyano, a Canadian lawyer and now a law fellow at Wadham College, Oxford, said: "The right to elect trial by judge alone is a major feature of the Canadian criminal system. If as a lawyer you had a very unsympathetic defendant you would not be choosing trial by jury. "Other cases which would probably be tried by judge alone include those with inflammatory evidence - for example, evidence that the accused had child pornography in his possession - or evidence that was particularly gruesome, where the jury might be shocked into a guilty verdict, or forensic evidence of a very technical nature, such as DNA, where you can get complex calculations." Malcolm Fowler, chairman of the Law Society's criminal law committee, said: "I do think that in England and Wales the public is wedded to jury trials and we shouldn't relinquish our hold on that just because there are models elsewhere that work perfectly well. "If the accused is put in the position where it's an absolute, free and unfettered right, then it's something we should debate. It's an idea that should result in a full consultation, as with the Halliday review on sentencing. "If the Treasury does its sums and finds it might be cheaper, they shouldn't just say that's quite handy, we think that would play well to the gallery." The Auld review is also expected to recommend a single criminal court, with lay magistrates trying the least serious offences, a mixed court of district judge and two lay magistrates for intermediate offences, and jury trial for the most serious.