The Premier League footballer Joey Barton was given a four-month suspended sentence yesterday after admitting assaulting a former teammate during a training match row in which the other player was knocked unconscious and punched repeatedly while on the ground.The 25-year-old, who signed for Newcastle for £5.8m last summer, punched Ousmane Dabo up to five times, leaving him unconscious and bloody at Manchester City's training ground in May 2007.Barton is already serving a six-month sentence for a "violent and cowardly attack" outside a McDonald's in Liverpool in December while on bail for the Dabo assault. In a brief statement, Newcastle indicated they would stand by the player, who has a history of violent behaviour: "The club now intends to hold discussions with Joey and his representatives at the earliest possible opportunity."On sentencing Barton at Manchester's Minshull Street crown court, Judge Mushtaq Khokhar said: "As a professional footballer you are someone who is talented and greatly idolised by young and old alike ... You are constantly in the public eye. You have a high profile, there would be instances of provocations ... being an idol brings with it responsibilities which you have to carry with you all the time."I am sure you realise that it was disgraceful behaviour on your part."Earlier Richard Vardon, prosecuting, said there had been unpleasantness and unnecessary physical challenges in the game: "At the end, the defendant continued to be aggressive towards Mr Dabo and shouted at him: 'You're fucking shite.'"Barton walked towards the player and continued shouting and swearing, the court heard. "In the words of Ousmane Dabo, [Barton] was snarling at him and he believed he might attack him," Vardon said. He said Dabo pushed Barton by the shoulders to get him out of his personal space but was then punched to the right of his face and lost consciousness. The attack was witnessed by a number of other players, including the Greece international Georgios Samaras, who was "shocked" and will never forget it, said Vardon. Dabo was taken to hospital, where he was found to have a trauma injury with severe bruising to his eyelids. He could not sleep for a week and suffered headaches. Barton was also ordered to carry out 200 hours' community service, pay £3,000 to Dabo and prosecution costs of £3,432. In mitigation, his barrister, Jim Sturman, said: "Ousmane Dabo clearly accepts that there was a two-handed push to the shoulders. In an instinctive reaction Joey Barton struck back. The first blow was self-defence but he accepts that the second, third and fourth blows were excessive." He apologised to Dabo on behalf of Barton.