A year-long police trial of controversial US Taser stun guns was launched today, with senior officers insisting that there was no direct evidence to suggest the weapons can be lethal.Specialist firearms officers from five police forces in England and Wales are to be equipped with Tasers. The hand-held electrical weapons are designed to incapacitate, rather than seriously injure or kill.Human rights groups, however, have expressed concern about their use, particularly after two deaths in the US were allegedly related to the use of Tasers. Chief constable Paul Acres, of the association of chief police officers, insisted that the stun guns were safe to use, but accepted that any weapon could be lethal. Speaking at the launch of the Tasers in Northampton, he said: "There is no evidence of any direct link between the use of Tasers and deaths, but there have been occasions when people who have been Tasered have died. However, there have been extenuating circumstances. "This has been carefully assessed by the [US] department of science and technology, and they feel it is safe for us to go for this test. "Any weapon can be lethal. This is a less lethal option ... there is a risk of using it, and any weapon, but it's a question of taking a responsible approach to the use of it."The weapons' introduction follows growing pressure for a "less lethal" weapon in a bid to reduce the number of people shot dead by armed police. Manufactured by Arizona-based company Taser International, the gun is designed to temporarily stun suspects so that they can be arrested.Officers have been instructed to shout the warning "Taser, Taser, Taser" at their targets before using the weapon, which fires needle-tipped darts over a distance of up to 21ft to deliver a disabling 50,000-volt shock. Twin darts are fired at their target at a speed of 180ft per second by a compressed nitrogen cartridge, delivering an electrical current that can penetrate clothing up to two inches thick. The charge instantly affects the target's muscles, forcing him or her to collapse into a foetal ball.The trial launch took place at Northamptonshire police's firearms range. The force is taking part in the scheme along with the Metropolitan, North Wales, Thames Valley and Lincolnshire forces. A spokeswoman for Northamptonshire police said that it would not be carrying out a live demonstration today. "However, many Northants officers have been Tasered during their training," she added. Trials of the weapon, which has been in use in north America for around 20 years, begin on Monday, but officers will not be carrying the equipment routinely. Tasers will only be used by fully-trained firearms officers once they have received permission to deploy conventional firearms. Manufacturers insist that the device causes no long-term injuries, only short-term skin irritation. However, they accept that there is the danger of eye injury if the Taser is fired at someone's face. Robert Parker, Amnesty International UK's arms campaigner, said: "The medical effects of Tasers have not been independently tested. Until they are proven safe, they must be treated as lethal weapons." "Tasers can easily be abused. Amnesty International has serious concerns about the use of a device which works by inflicting intolerable pain on people," he added.