The CCTV film shows a brutal scene. In an English high street, a gang is punching and kicking a figure on the ground. The force of the blows makes the victim's head knock backwards against the concrete wall of Woolworths. Otherwise, he is motionless. That footage comes from Wisbech, the Cambridgeshire town at the heart of the latest furore over immigration.This assault, though, did not fit the template of the county's chief constable, Julie Spence, who last week sketched a police force struggling to cope with an influx of knife-carrying, drink-driving, feuding European migrants. The victims were two young Polish men and the assailants 10 British youths described, at a recent court hearing, as behaving 'like a pack of animals bringing down prey'.The beating was a rare event. So was the murder of one Lithuanian by another, cited by Spence as evidence of pressure on her officers. A local council official told me he could recall only one similar incident, in which a man was burnt to death in his car, apparently by a fellow incomer. Still, it's all extra work for Spence's staff, no matter who's attacking whom. She has attracted almost universal praise for daring, in her comments on migrants, to break one of society's great taboos.Which taboo would that be? It does not extend to my part of north London, where foreign decorators are viewed by their British rivals with the mistrust extended to Conquistadors by the Aztec empire. Nor have social niceties silenced hardliners in my Fenland home town, not far from Wisbech. A sample of the political correctness supposedly paralysing society has included a soccer riot after Portugal beat England, an attack in which a Portuguese mother and her baby were burnt out of their rented home and the grumbling of a small but ominous mutterati.On Spence's patch, MP Malcolm Moss announced his investigation in 2005 into concerns that Wisbech was becoming 'a ghetto town'. This inquiry (result unknown) appeared to be based on one resident's allegation that migrant workers crammed into rented houses were failing to meet Ideal Home benchmarks by neglecting their front gardens and hanging sheets instead of curtains at their windows.Migrant-bashing is not society's final taboo. It is its last, and cherished, public prejudice. Far from never daring to speak its name, it is a pub and media staple on a par with the Blue Peter cat and Jose Mourinho's Chelsea pay-off. Spence and Moss give succour, however unwittingly, to nationalists and xenophobes, as well as nurturing citizens' groundless fears that Britain is being swamped by lawless migrants.There could be no greater mangling of the truth. Crime in Cambridgeshire is falling: 683,000 migrants have applied to work in Britain from Eastern Europe since 2004, but the rate is slowing. In the second quarter of this year, applications fell to 50,000, which is 6,000 lower than the same period in 2006. All but 3 per cent are employed and 56 per cent say they plan to stay for under three months. With 380,000 people leaving the country each year, we may be exporting more human beings than we import.This is an odd basis for a panic. But other immigration figures are notoriously imprecise and our borders badly managed. Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman Nick Clegg proposes a conditional amnesty for 600,000 'illegal' immigrants, a plan that should be adopted by government as a prelude to a properly managed system of admitting a range of people and helping them adapt. In implying, instead, that undocumented workers are a drain on welfare and should all 'go home', Immigration Minister Liam Byrne lets prejudice fester against all non-Britons.Britain's history is built on migrant labour and expertise. Irish harvesters, Dutch engineers and gypsy travellers all left their mark on the Fens, but it took the Eastern Europeans to transform agro-industries, boost the local economy by £360m and get Costa Coffees and New Looks into time-warped high streets.Obviously, importing people to do jobs that locals won't touch brings problems. Schools are under pressure, because they have too little funding and too few resources. In Wisbech, fishermen are reported to be alarmed that 'irresponsible' people (i.e. migrants) are dumping rubbish and eating the pike and carp that, according to convention and law, must be thrown back.Warning signs may be put up in Eastern European languages. The next step, presumably, is a visit from one of Spence's officers, bearing a thumbed phrasebook containing such opening gambits as: 'Pot sa vorbesc cu tine?' ('Can I have a word with you?' in Romanian). In addition, a police guide includes warnings, in 15 different languages, not to fondle people without their permission or to urinate and spit in public.Behind such Pythonesque integration strategies lie wild distortions. Incomers, many highly qualified, get parodied as the Vilnius variant of Fred Flintstone, while their hosts get branded racists. But for every Briton shouting 'Fuck you' at a Polish waiter, there is another deploring migrants being housed in garden sheds. On the day Spence fuelled the latest 'scandal', Fenland District Council published an excellent and hopeful migrant strategy which attracted no notice whatsoever.No one doubts that a few incomers break the law. But the real villains are the gang masters paying slave wages for six-day weeks and the landlords getting £1,200 a month for a three-bedroomed house by stacking workers in every room. Obviously, high rents are bad news for local people. Even so, mistrust the view that outsiders don't understand the price being paid by local communities. The East of England, increasingly affluent and with virtually full employment, has been propelled into the 21st century by people existing in a Dickensian shadowland of sweatshop labour.Tomorrow, Channel 4 will screen Ken Loach's film, It's a Free World ..., about the exploitation of immigrants without papers. Don't take his word for it. Go to the Fens and you will meet legal visitors existing on church charity and treated in ways that shame a civilised country. In a world of shrinking distances, the barriers of geography have been replaced by those of fear and bias.As a final insult, leading citizens and politicians have the gall to suggest we are somehow the victims of those so shamelessly exploited in our land. Such warped reality bears a high price as Britain moves towards an immigration points system and the rich world imposes a form of globalised apartheid to keep the poor world out. It is getting harder all the time for genuine refugees to claim asylum in a country that welcomed in the Huguenots and the Jews. The sour protectionism that greets EU workers bodes ominously for a future in which wars and natural disasters may swell the world's refugees to a billion by 2050.Immigration has been one of Britain's great triumphs. But, for no good reason, the welcome mat wears dangerously thin. The myth of the feckless welfare sponger is countered by the stream of would-be Britons paying, on top of their taxes, £34 a go to sit (or resit) their settlement exam and £80 for a citizenship ceremony.The spirit of Britishness Gordon Brown wants to formalise can only be distilled from the raw materials on offer, whether they be warmth, cohesion or a gang of Fenland youths slamming a Polish man's head into a shop wall. Intolerance wreaks far more damage on Britain than any minor inconvenience posed by incomers. There is no immigration scandal, nor any doomsday scenario of over-population. Bogus fears are incubating a greater crisis. We are witnessing the brutalisation of Britain and the severance of human bonds.mary.riddell@observer.co.uk