A couple whose baby son died after being shaken with such ferocity he suffered a brain injury likened to that suffered in a high speed car crash were jailed today.John Boswell and Emma Buck were convicted of perverting the course of justice after a court heard they lied about their son Ryan's death in 2005. They exploited a legal loophole - which has since been closed - allowing them to say nothing or blame each other for the tragedy. Today they were both jailed for two-and-a-half years. Prosecutors believe one of the parents must have killed Ryan but police were unable to establish who did it. Neither was charged with murder or manslaughter because the prosecution could not prove which one of them had shaken the infant. But the crown took the unusual decision to prosecute them for giving the police a series of false stories over how he died. During their five-day trial in May Boswell, 20 and Buck, 22, both denied perverting the course of justice over his death. Despite expert medical evidence, which said bleeding in his head was symptomatic of classic baby-shaking injuries, they denied injuring him. Ryan, who was born three months' premature, had been in his parents' care for less than three weeks at their home in Shotton, north Wales, before he was returned to hospital on New Year's Day, 2005. He died in January 17, 2005, of "catastrophic injury" to the brain, which was so severe it was compared to the injuries sustained in a road accident. No-one else was present at the flat, the prosecution said, and one or other of his parents must have been responsible for his injuries. Sentencing the couple today, Judge Merfyn Hughes told them they had chosen to lie and that it was "impossible" to say which of them had caused Ryan's death. "As his parents you owed him the ultimate duty to care for him and protect him. You betrayed the trust he was entitled to," he was quoted by the BBC as saying. The court heard that since Buck's conviction, she had admitted "lightly shaking" Ryan after he had fallen ill. But Rhys Rowlands, prosecuting, said light shaking would not have caused the injuries which killed him. During the trial it was alleged Boswell shook the baby when he cried for a feed and Buck covered up for Boswell. Judge Hughes said Buck was very much under Boswell's influence. Jeff Clarke, defending Boswell, said he insisted he had nothing to do with his son's death. Both defendants suggested that it had been an unexplained death or cot death. They claimed they enjoyed looking after Ryan and said that his crying at feed time was normal and not a problem.