The parents of a 16-year-old girl who was the victim of an attempted abduction caught on CCTV said today she had a "lucky escape" from a potentially "tragic" situation.The teenager was attacked by a man on York Road in Doncaster, South Yorkshire, in the early hours of last Friday morning.The close circuit television footage shows a large man in a white T-shirt approach the girl, engage her in conversation and then pick her up and carry her off into bushes at the side of the road.She managed to break free after struggling with the attacker and police arrived soon after, but the man managed to flee the scene.The CCTV camera was following the girl after an off-duty police officer had alerted operators when he saw her walking home alone. Today, in a statement read by a police officer at a press conference, her family said: "We'd like to help police to stress the dangers of walking out alone at night. We recognise that she did have a very lucky escape from what might have otherwise been tragic circumstances."We are overawed by the scale of the public response and would like to express our sincere gratitude for the assistance given by the public in this matter. "We'd also like to pass our thanks on to police officers involved in this case. The whole experience has proved a great strain on us and we would respectfully ask that members of the media don't contact us directly. "This will allow us time to adjust to the situation and attempt to get back to normal. We can tell you that she is recovering well from her trauma and reflecting on the events of the night."Detective Chief Inspector Richard Fewkes of Doncaster police said the force had received 130 calls from the public about the incident over the last two days, in which 70 different men had been named. Mr Fewkes said officers were now sifting through a mass of information but he said a minimum of 25 detectives were now working on the case and some of the people named would be visited today. He told the press conference: "One of the most important things today is to make a further appeal for information from members of the public, particularly those in the Doncaster area."From inquiries we have made over the last two days we firmly believe this man had been in Doncaster town area specifically on the night of Thursday June 26 last week and the early hours of Friday June 27, shortly prior to this incident taking place at 3.20am. "My appeal today is to anyone on that particular night who was socialising in the Doncaster town centre area." Mr Fewkes added: "I would like to know whether any other woman or girl on that particular night had actually encountered this particular individual - have they seen him or been approached by him?" He stressed that this incident was not an "everyday" occurrence but warned women to take precautions until the man is caught. He said: "There is absolutely no doubt that this individual has followed this girl for some distance. There is no doubt in my mind that his intention has been to abduct her." Acting detective sergeant Rick Rushton, the family liaison officer who read the statement, confirmed the victim had been returning home from Doncaster town centre at the time of the attack but refused to give details of her night out. He said the family had been "struggling to cope because of the attention from the media. They are just a normal family going about their lives." He said the girl was comforted by family and friends and was not up to talking publicly about her trauma. He added that she had not put herself in a "compromising position" during her evening out. Mr Fewkes added: "Doncaster town centre is an attractive place for young people and I don't think we can criticise that young girl for being out and enjoying herself."