Prison reformers are calling on general election candidates to sign a declaration backing a cut in the jail population rather than play the "prison card" during the campaign. The Howard League for Penal Reform yesterday urged candidates to back its manifesto, which also calls for more community sentences and imprisonment only as a last resort. The league said it would be open about those who refuse to offer support, though it said it would be "naming and praising" rather than "naming and shaming". The new challenge to candidates comes after an anti-racism pledge drawn up by the commission for racial equality ignited the current race row within the Conservative party. The Howard League manifesto also comes after William Hague clashed with Lord Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, who last year urged politicians to steer clear of playing the "prison card" as he warned of growing prison overcrowding. The Conservative leader then argued it might be necessary to increase the country's prison population - already the second highest in Western Europe - in order to tackle crime. The league is also unhappy with government prison policy. Its president, creator of Rumpole of the Bailey, Sir John Mortimer QC, yesterday made clear his personal view that Labour had "failed totally". He said: "The business of leaders is to reawaken thinking about the efficacy of prisons. Politicians should lead public opinion rather than slavishly following it." The league's manifesto sets out five principles, including basing the penal system on "effective community penalties" and concentrating public resources on preventing crime. Prisons should "provide a positive experience and a realistic chance of rehabilitation", and the criminal justice process should be based on the principle of repairing the damage done by crime, the statement adds. Publishing statistics showing that the use of imprisonment in Britain is second only to Portugal among western European states, the league sets out five priorities for action, including reducing the prison population to the European average. Campaigners also want children taken out of prisons, "proper status" for the rights and needs of victims of crime and promotion of safer communities through social and economic policies. A spokesman yesterday acknowledged that the league did not anticipate party leaders signing the declaration. However, supporters of penal reform will be encouraged to approach local parliamentary candidates and urge them to sign. The league's policy chairman, Professor David Wilson said:"We were concerned that politicians would play the prison card and we saw an early sign of that when Mr Blair went to Pentonville recently and announced 2,500 more prison places." The home secretary, Jack Straw, was "trying to do good by stealth" but could not deal with the issue that prison did not work because it would lose votes, he claimed.