The Provisional IRA has continued to deny its involvement in the Northern Bank robbery in Belfast, despite accusations to the contrary from both Bertie Ahern, the Irish prime minister, and Hugh Orde, the Northern Ireland police chief. Last month's robbery, in which £26.5m was stolen, threatens to scupper "negotiations to restore powersharing and to seal a deal between Sinn Féin and the Democratic Unionist party", said David Lister in the Times.In the  Irish News, Breidge Gadd condemned those who had rushed to accuse the IRA of the theft. It is impossible to say, "with conviction" who committed this "most audacious robbery", she said. "It is shocking - deeply shocking - that guesses, opinions, informed views, even those of the chief constable, have come to be seen ... as a satisfactory substitute for proper processes where criminal behaviour must be proven in a court of law ... Whatever happened to innocent until proven guilty?" But others accused the IRA of involvement. "We have reached the point of the straw that broke the camel's back," wrote Stephen Dempster in Belfast's  News Letter. The peace talks would now have to be suspended until later in the year, he advised, allowing for "a period of reflection in which Sinn Féin are cold-shouldered". Chris Thornton, in the Belfast Telegraph, agreed that "realistic talk of a settlement has slipped somewhere over the horizon". But he felt that Sinn Féin shouldn't be excluded from Stormont as a result of the heist. Such a move "would allow Sinn Féin to claim their voters were being made victims - that a quarter of the electorate was being denied the right to choose the representatives of their choice", he wrote. The governments in London and Dublin must be "resigned to patience, allowing tempers to cool". The "mock outrage of Sinn Féin leaders" at suggestions of IRA guilt enraged Fintan O'Toole in the  Irish Times. Tolerance of the IRA "has now become a problem for the peace process", he warned. "It is time democrats began to call the IRA what it is: a bunch of self-appointed thugs who have never sought a political mandate ... and who have just one remaining purpose - to go away."