The death penalty should be reintroduced for people who kill police officers, a former chief constable said yesterday.Keith Hellawell, chief constable of West Yorkshire from 1993 to 1998, told BBC News: 'We ought to make it clear to people that if you shoot a police officer you are going to hang if you are convicted.' The death of PC Ian Broadhurst also reignited the debate over whether police officers should be armed. Opponents said such a move might not be welcomed in Britain and would mean the introduction of US-style law enforcement. But Norman Brennan, director of police support group Protect The Protectors, said: 'This indiscriminate murder yet again begs the question: when do we fully arm the British police service? 'An assault on a police officer is an assault on society and the murder of a police officer is a loss to society. 'Gun crime has become a cancer on society and we cannot allow it to be terminal. Unarmed officers are sitting ducks when trying to tackle the increased gun crime in this country that is out of control. 'Armed criminals have complete disrespect and my colleague has paid the ultimate price for trying to make society a safer place.' However, Shadow Home Secretary David Davis later said: 'The risk of arming the police is it will put a barrier between the ordinary policeman and ordinary citizen. It could be counter-productive. It can only be addressed coolly and with police themselves. It is noticeable that West Yorkshire Police decided last year not to routinely use body armour. 'The answer to this problem is to attack its root and not just its symptoms. That means better resources of police, tougher sentences and a clear and more decisive policy on drugs. All of which are designed to prevent the lawlessness on our streets spiralling out of control.' More than 50 officers have died on Britain's streets since 1980. Between 1980 and 1989 a total of 30 officers were killed in the line of duty, between 1990 and 1999 a further 18 officers were killed and from 2000 to date, eight officers have lost their lives. Film producer Michael Winner yesterday announced a £20,000 reward for help in catching the gunman who killed PC Broadhurst. Winner, founder of the Police Memorial Trust, said: 'The heroic deeds of Ian Broadhurst - and of thousands of other police officers - are an example to us all.'