Tulay Goren was still a child when she met and fell in love with a man 15 years her senior. After a troubled childhood with a domineering father who beat her, she found happiness at 15 with Halil Unal, a fellow Turkish Kurd who ran a clothing factory in Hackney, east London, where she had a summer job.Her family disapproved because Unal was much older and a Sunni Muslim, while they were from a different branch of Islam. Tulay was desperate to rid herself of her family and her strict upbringing and ran away to be with him. But in setting up home with her lover, Tulay had triggered a centuries-old code of honour, or namus, from her rural homeland under which the shame of virginity lost to the wrong man could be avenged only by her death.Her last words to her lover, on 7 January 1999 after she had been tricked into returning to her parents' home in Woodford Green, north-east London, and held there, were a whispered warning in a secret phone call to him that he, too, was being lured into a trap. She has never been seen or heard from since and her body has never been recovered.Today, , a decade after she vanished, her father, Mehmet, 49, was found guilty of her murder.Tulay was the second of four children born to Hanim, an illiterate woman from eastern rural Turkey who married Mehmet at 15. Tulay was smuggled into Britain from the predominately Kurdish area of Elbistan, south-eastern Turkey, when she was 12. Her father joined the family a year later, but struggled to adapt or find work.Close communityA feckless character who gambled the family's child benefit, failed to provide for them, and kept them in check through violence, Mehmet insisted they maintain the culture and traditions of his homeland.He would beat his children for minor transgressions, once slapping his son, Tuncay, for wearing low-slung jeans. Within the close, patriarchal Kurdish community the Gorens inhabited, women were seen as the property of their fathers, then their husbands, whom they must obey, although this was at odds with the schooling Tulay and her sisters received.Nadia Mahmood, a friend from Woodbridge high school, north-east London, said Tulay had never mentioned her home life and had seemed sad until she met Unal. "The only time Tulay smiled or seemed happy was when she spoke about this guy," she said.A headstrong teenager, on the verge of being expelled from school for truanting, smoking and fighting, Tulay was determined to shake off her family ties. She was rebelling "in a big way", according to her sister Nuray, now 28. A year earlier, there had been similar rows over Nuray's choice of fiance but, as she was 17, Mehmet relented and a marriage took place.Perhaps Tulay believed she, too, could persuade her father to allow her to marry the man she loved. But when Mehmet found out on 10 December 1998 that Tulay had been seeing Unal, he went to Techron Trading, Unal's factory in Hackney. There he attacked and threatened to kill him. Police were called but Unal refused to press charges because he wanted Mehmet's permission to marry Tulay.In the fraught days that followed, Tulay ran away from home twice after being slapped and kicked by her father. The first time, she reported him to police and told them she wanted to be sent to a children's home, but was persuaded to return by her mother. She ran away again, this time into Unal's arms, and the two lived in a flat overlooking Victoria Park in Hackney.Living with a man who was a Sunni, and refusing to bow to her father's will, Tulay was now a "worthless commodity". The concept of namus, to which the Gorens adhered, relates to the control men exercise over women, and also the respect a man holds in the community. Tulay's transgression would have been seen as a stain on the seref, or status, of the male members of the Goren family and it would have excluded them from the community.WhispersAs a last resort to restore the family's standing, the men reluctantly agreed that the two should marry. But the marriage, arranged for 21 December 1998, fell through when the authorities – and Unal – realised she was underage. Unal had believed Tulay when she said she was 17.Unmarried, her reputation in tatters, Tulay's dishonour was now the subject of gossip and of her father's rage. To compound matters, Unal had refused to give Mehmet a dowry of £5,000. If Unal had given Mehmet the money he had demanded, Hanim would later tell the court, the matter would have been resolved. But Unal refused. There had been no marriage and no dowry and the whispers in the community grew louder.But it was not Mehmet they shunned and pointed at. It was Mehmet's eldest brother, Ali, whose seref was most tainted by Tulay's shame. Ali, 55, and a businessman, was already established in Britain and owned a cafe, Pedros, in Workington, Cumbria. He had not spoken to his brother for 15 years before his arrival in Britain, disapproving of his gambling habit, but he helped out financially. It was the prosecution's case that, as family head, Ali was responsible for the protection of the namus of their women and would have been key to making the fatal decision to kill Tulay and Unal. The jury, however, cleared him of the charge.On 6 January, Mehmet and Hanim visited Tulay while Unal was away and took her home, on the pretext that it would be a temporary measure until Unal found suitable accommodation for them.Later that day, Hanim returned home with her youngest daughter, Hatice, to find Tulay lying bound, face down, on the floor in her room upstairs, her hands and feet bruised from being tied up by Mehmet. When Hanim started to loosen the ties, the distraught teenager stopped her, saying: "Mum don't untie me. I want to die." That night, Tulay again tried to escape, climbing through a bathroom window, but she was caught by her father, who grabbed her round the neck and threatened to kill her. Later, Mehmet drugged her coffee so that she could not run away again.In court, Mehmet denied drugging, beating or tying up his daughter the day before she disappeared, saying that it was his wife who did these things. He told the court "not a day went by" that she was not cruel to the children.Tulay woke on the morning of her disappearance crying and told her mother she did not want breakfast. Hanim broke down in court as she spoke of her daughter "looking into my eyes for the last time".Mehmet ordered Hanim to keep the other children, Hatice, 13, and Tuncay, eight, off school, and take them to his brother Cuma's house, saying he wanted to "talk things over" with her alone. In a taped interview to police from June 1999 which was played in court, Hatice said their father had told her brother to let Tulay kiss him that morning because "this is the last time you will see each other". Tulay's sister, who died in a car crash in 2006, also said that in the months that followed, her mother was upset because she thought Tulay was dead but her father was "OK … he's not upset really".Hanim said she was later told by Mehmet never to mention Tulay. He said: "Our four children are no longer four children. From now on we only have three children."Mehmet, who had claimed Tulay had run away, changed his evidence to claim his eldest brother had urged him to kill her and Unal and that he last saw her when Ali travelled down from Cumbria on 7 January to take her back with him. He denied killing his daughter, saying she was "part of my soul", and attempted to portray himself as an indulgent father. Ali, for his part, claimed in court that he had believed Tulay had run off, until Mehmet accused him of the crime. He said his brother must have "gone crazy" and killed her in a loss of temper. Both insisted they did not adhere to the honour code and Mehmet told the court he was regularly arrested and tortured for fighting for women's rights in Turkey.Hanim's testimony was crucial to the prosecution case. She gave evidence about a deep cut and scratches on her husband's hand on the evening of 7 January, two missing kitchen knives and a missing roll of bin bags, that Mehmet had washed a shirt for the first time in 30 years of marriage after Tulay's disappearance, that the garden was dug up and then redug four days later while she was instructed to be elsewhere, and about the comings and goings of Mehmet at odd times of the night. She increasingly begged her husband to tell the truth. In one emotional outburst in court, she turned to the dock and demanded: "Look at my face. What did you do to Tulay?"She said she was trying to be strong for her remaining children, Nuray and Tuncay, but said that the "pain and suffering" of not knowing had become unbearable. She said she longed for even "a piece of bone of Tulay" so that she could bury her alongside her other daughter, Hatice.Significantly, it was Unal, not the Gorens, who told the police she was missing, after Mehmet attacked him with an axe on 22 January after luring him to a meeting at the Thatched House pub in Leytonstone. Mehmet was prosecuted in 2001 for grievous bodily harm and served three years in jail, but, after the investigation was revisited, all three brothers were charged with conspiracy to murder Unal. They were all cleared of this charge.Unal told detectives that while he was all too aware of the rigid system of namus practised in his homeland, he never believed it would happen in Britain.