Serial killer Levi Bellfield's propensity to explosive, violent and random attacks on lone women at night earned him the nickname the "bus-stop stalker".But he also harboured an unhealthy obsession with young schoolgirls and school uniforms.While under police surveillance he approached and made "highly sexually provocative" comments to two girls, cousins aged 14 and 16, at a bus stop. But this was judged too prejudicial for the jury to hear.Former girlfriends – he fathered 11 children with five women – told police he would ask them to dress up in school uniform, which they declined to do. He would think nothing of driving around, leering at girls in school uniforms and shouting abuse after them, said one former partner."It's an attraction which obviously has particular resonance when you consider the offences relating to Amanda Dowler," prosecutor Brian Altman said at a pre-trial hearing.Bellfield also hated blondes. Aquaintances spoke of his loathing of women who dyed their hair blonde, calling them "impure" and "sluts", and saying they "deserved to be messed around with".One girlfriend found a magazine in which all the faces of the blonde women were scratched out with a knife. Bellfield told her he used to go into alleyways, wait for blonde women to walk past, and feel the urge to "hurt then, stab them".Despite lacking obvious physical charm, he thought himself a "ladies' man", with a gift of the gab, and his job as a club doorman offered him plenty of opportunities to pick up girls. In one instance, it is claimed he gave Rohypnol to one young clubber before raping her. When the girl's mother rang her mobile, he boasted about what he had done.He had a reputation for following teenage girls in his van, pestering them for sex. Inside the van there was a mattress, blankets and baseball bat, according to one former employee, who called Bellfield "an animal" and a "caveman".Bellfield is said to have offered his friend the opportunity to buy sex with his then girlfriend, just 16, as well as her 14-year-old sister. The offer was refused.Born in Isleworth, one of three boys and a girl, he was proud of his Romany Gypsy roots. His father, a motor mechanic, died when he was eight. He was very close to his mother, described as a "strong-willed matriach", and visited her regularly – including in the hours after he killed Milly.Perhaps his violent obsession with blondes had its roots in an incident early on, when, at the age of 12, his 14-year-old girlfriend Patsy Morris, who was blonde, was found strangled on Hounslow Heath.With convictions for burglary stretching back to when he was 13, and for possessing an offensive weapon in public, he was also involved in credit card fraud and collected many driving offences.He suffered wild mood swings, and admitted at his previous murder trial he was clinically depressed – a condition exacerbated by his drug use. He claimed he had tried to hang himself twice.Before his arrest, Bellfield was eager to impress his former schoolfriends, bragging on the social networking website Friends Reunited about his door security and wheel-clamping company.Playing up to his ladies' man image, he described himself as "a bit flash" and "still think im 18 out clubbing, Ibiza, Tenerife, doing ok good laugh the slippers aint out yet". He ended with a plea for "any single girls out there e mail me…….LATERS".