Tony Martin today returned to his farm, Bleak House, after serving over three years in prison for shooting dead a teenage burglar there.Mr Martin was accompanied by reporters from the Daily Mirror newspaper, which has paid Mr Martin a reported £125,000 for exclusive access and interviews. The Norfolk farm is sealed off from other reporters. Mr Martin's return came 12 days after his release from prison, where he served two-thirds of a five-year sentence for the manslaughter of 16-year-old Fred Barras. In August 1999, he shot dead Barras and wounded an accomplice, Brendan Fearon, 33, after confronting them at his isolated home late at night. The burglars had travelled from their homes in Newark, Nottinghamshire to raid Mr Martin's farm.The farmer today pinned a statement on his farm gate expressing thanks to his supporters. In it, Mr Martin said he was "particularly delighted to be reunited with my dog Otto" and was "looking forward to getting back on my combined harvester". He added: "I feel very strongly that important questions of householders' rights have been raised by my case and still have to be answered by the government. "I hope that my case will continue to provoke debate and it is my sincere hope that our government and our courts will properly recognise the rights of victims of burglaries over criminals. "Nobody should feel in fear living in their own home," the statement read. Police have set up a mobile station outside the farmhouse following reported threats on the farmer's life.Norfolk police did not comment on whether there was any possible threat to Mr Martin but added that security arrangements set up at the farm remained. There have been suggestions that some in the gypsy community - of which Barras was a member - have threatened to harm Mr Martin. Malcolm Starr, a close friend and spokesman for Mr Martin, said he believed his friend would be safe at Bleak House despite the threats made against him."I think it is going to be a relief for him to face some sort of normality," Mr Starr added. "It sounds as though he will be spending his time now repairing his combined harvester, checking his wheat and checking his orchard to see the consequences of not pruning for four years. All the things you would do on a farm," he said.Richard Portham, a neighbour and friend of Mr Martin, said: "I am glad he is back. I can't deny the threats to him are of concern, it is a worry, but it is symptomatic of the society we live in today. "He always said he would go back home because this is his home and it has been in his family for well over 100 years," Mr Portham added.