British and Jamaican police are beginning a joint drive to tackle international drug syndicates and violent criminal gangs which it is feared are picking Britons and other Europeans as mules - drug couriers.The two countries are expected to run joint intelligence operations. Jamaican officers are expected to share the sophisticated technologies being pioneered by Scotland Yard, and will play an enhanced role in identifying those involved in criminal activity in Britain. The collaboration was discussed yesterday by Peter Phillips, the Jamaican minister for national security, in meetings with the Home Office and Scotland Yard. Dr Phillips said: "Our collaboration is going well, but we are going to try and broaden the base of what we do. We are focusing not just on countering narcotics, but also on dealing with the violent crime activity. "Before we have had cooperation but what we are looking at now is collaboration." He said the requirement on Jamaicans visiting Britain to obtain visas had forced drug gangs to innovate. "There is a greater effort by those who would traffic to use British nationals so they don't encounter the question of visas. They are using other European nationals too. "They have their own intelligence networks and they are directing people to travel to help them with their trafficking. We need better intelligence to counter this and to pool our experiences so we can better learn the modus operandi of these people. "We will not reverse [the] phenomenon in a year, or even two. It will require patience." Some Jamaicans feared that the island's reputation was being damaged by high-profile discussion of crime and drugs, but Dr Phillips said reality had to be faced. "The best defence for Jamaica's image is for us to circulate information about what we are doing and for us to have success in confronting this criminal activity." He has been visiting Jamaicans in London, Birmingham and Manchester, and telling them about its law enforcement efforts at home and abroad. He met the customs minister, John Healey, yesterday, and they signed a memorandum of understanding. He was also due to meet the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens. Earlier this year it was reported that joint action had reduced the number of cocaine couriers arrested in Britain by 75%. In Operation Airbridge customs officers in Jamaica used x-rays and swabs to detect traces of cocaine and were able to arrest mules before they boarded flights.Britain spent £2m enabling its customs officers to look for couriers who had escaped the net in Jamaica. But the gangs have become more resourceful. They have varied the types of couriers and the routes they use. Earlier this year it emerged that British pensioners from the Midlands were being paid to carry drugs from Grenada. Diane Abbott, MP for Hackney North, said tougher action was overdue. "In Hackney we are at the epicentre of some of this drug mule traffic and the related gun crime," she said. "The community has to continue to mobilise against these types of crime, but it is vital that the authorities work together as closely as possible because we know that is what the gangsters do."