Merseyside police today voluntarily referred itself to the Independent Police Complaints Commission over its handling of sex offender Peter Chapman, who went on to rape and murder a teenager who he met using a fake Facebook profile.Chapman, 33, was given a life sentence yesterday at Teesside crown court and was told by a judge that it will be at least 35 years before he is eligible for parole.After realising Chapman, a registered sex offender, had vanished from his home in Merseyside early last year, police did not issue a national wanted alert until nine months later.Chapman lured 17-year-old Ashleigh Hall to her death in October, just a month after the alert was issued. Chapman posted a fake photograph on Facebook and purported to be a handsome teenager half his true age to ensnare his victim.It emerged today that he was last seen at his home in Kirkby on 29 August 29 2008. An officer spoke to him on the telephone the following month ‑ on 24 September ‑ about a forklift truck course he was attending.Merseyside police said that, up to this point, he "had remained fully compliant with his registration requirements" imposed on him by being on the sex offenders' register. He was on the register following his conviction for raping two prostitutes, which led to a seven-year prison sentence.Chapman was released on licence in 2001 and ordered to comply with the strict terms of the register, such as informing police when he changed address. Officers visited his home on 6 January 2009 to discuss a traffic matter, but he was out. Different officers were supposed to visit him a month later in line with his parole checks but again he was out. The force maintains that officers then worked to establish his whereabouts locally.But it was not until September 2009 ‑ a month before he murdered Ashleigh Hall ‑ that police issued a nationwide wanted alert.The force referred its handling and review of the Chapman case to the IPCC after the home secretary, Alan Johnson, demanded answers. Johnson called on the police to "respond" and said lessons "needed to be learned" following Ashleigh's murder.Today, a spokesman said: "Merseyside police can confirm that an internal review was carried out following the arrest of Peter Chapman in October last year. Following the review, a number of procedural improvements were identified and subsequently implemented."However, in view of the public interest and concerns raised following the conviction of Peter Chapman and to ensure complete transparency in terms of this particular matter, the force has referred it to the Independent Police Complaints Commission."The Liberal Democrats' home affairs spokesman, Chris Huhne, said the sex offenders register should be upgraded to take account of the use of the internet. He said: "We do not even require the registration of IP and email addresses of sex offenders, which has now become typical in the United States. This would allow police to monitor social networking activity."He also called for Facebook to fix the "glaring failure" on its website, to include the Child Exploitation and Online Protection (Ceop) centre button, which allows users to understand risks and to report suspicious activity.The National Association of Probation Officers has cast doubt on whether the authorities have the resources to effectively monitor some 50,000 sexual or violent offenders. Its assistant secretary, Harry Fletcher, said: "It is virtually impossible for the police to have all but a handful of these people under 24-hour surveillance."[Peter Chapman] is clearly dangerous; he uses Facebook to contact a victim so there's lessons there, he uses many aliases and he travels round the country. But unless we have literally thousands and thousands of more police officers involved in surveillance, then these things are going to continue to happen."