Three teenagers have been arrested and bailed in connection with the homophobic murder of Jody Dobrowski on Clapham Common at the weekend, police said today.The males, two aged 17 and one aged 13, were arrested early yesterday. They were questioned by officers and bailed this morning to return to a south London police station late next month.They had originally been detained on suspicion of motor vehicle offences in nearby Battersea during the early hours of Monday morning, but were later arrested and questioned in connection with Mr Dobrowski's murder.Police are still seeking two main suspects believed to have murdered the 24-year-old bar manager on the south-west London common during the early hours of Saturday morning.The suspects are both white and aged around 20 to 30. One is described as being approximately 6ft tall, with short, shaven hair and a London accent. The other is described as being noticeably shorter and stockier.Detectives said Mr Dobrowski was kicked and punched during a "sustained" attack by two men, and later died in hospital. The area of the common on which he was attacked is known as a cruising area for gay men.The two suspects had also threatened to beat up another gay man on the same night. He had stumbled across the attack on Mr Dobrowski, who worked in a bar in Camden, north London. The men threatened to attack him unless he backed off. When he did, they continued to punch their victim, who lived in Newham, east London. Police believe the two suspects had attacked gay men in the past, and fear they could do so again.Officers said around 12 people could have witnessed the attack. They said some had made contact and urged others to come forward so they could be ruled out as suspects. Detectives said they were are particularly interested in being contacted again by a man from the Surrey area, understood to be a witness, who telephoned the inquiry team on Sunday evening. Police said the anonymous caller had "good information", and "strongly urged" him to get back in touch. Gay officers have been appointed to the investigation team, and officers said people who had information could choose to speak to them if they wished.Relatives and friends of Mr Dobrowski yesterday gathered at the scene of the attack. In a statement on behalf of his family, the victim's brother, Jake, said: "A beautiful and fine young man has been taken from us, and the people who did this will never understand the horror they have inflicted on his family and hundreds of friends. "We need to ensure that, as a civilised society, we make sure this does not happen again."