Detectives investigating the disappearance of a young woman 16 years ago have discovered human remains buried at the former home of a convicted rapist and murderer.The remains were uncovered on Monday in the back garden of a house in Margate, Kent, by forensic archaeologists from Essex police. They had been searching the house as part of the investigation into the disappearance of Dinah McNicol, an 18-year-old student from Tillingham, Essex.The house, a three-bedroom terrace, is the former home of a man who is now serving a life sentence for raping and murdering a young woman. The man cannot be named for legal reasons.Essex police said last week that the McNicol case would be re-examined following a review by its Serious Crime Review Team. A spokeswoman said that detectives had received information that led them to the house in Irvine Drive, Margate.Yesterday postmortem examinations were being carried out on the remains, which have not yet been formally identified. But officers were keen to stress that the family who have lived there for the last 12 years "categorically have no involvement in this investigation". They have been moved to temporary accommodation while the property is searched.McNicol disappeared in August 1991 on the way home from a music festival in Liphook, Hampshire. She was last seen by a male friend with whom she was hitching. Detectives believe the pair were picked up on the A3 by a man in a car, who dropped her friend off at junction 8 of the M25 near Reigate, Surrey. Neither the man nor the car have been traced.Around this time, £500 was drawn from McNicol's account at cash machines in Sussex and Hampshire, officers said. She had saved around £2,000 to go travelling, after which she was planning to go to university.The missing woman's father, Ian, 68, would not comment yesterday. "He's in bed, he's finding this very difficult," a friend said, speaking from his home in Tillingham.Previously he had welcomed the search, saying: "There is 99% of me which thinks she's dead, but until the police can produce a body or find anything there is 1% of me that is still hopeful that she is alive."I am very pleased about the new investigation. Having someone go missing is worse than someone dying. I lost my wife in a car accident in 1980. I went through hell but got over it. With Dinah, I can't get over it because I don't know what happened."I want to die in peace knowing what happened to my daughter."Detectives released a new photograph of the woman yesterday, taken at her grandmother's Lincolnshire home shortly before she left for the music festival. Detective Superintendent Tim Wills said the picture could prove important as it showed "the vibrant bubbly girl her family describe"."The photo publicised for the last 16 years shows Dinah sporting a striking gothic image in a formal pose," he said. "This image shows a distinctly different and more relaxed looking young woman and it may be enough to trigger someone's memory."Although it is too early to say what, if any, connection the discovery at the Margate house has to Dinah, we would urge people local to Margate to study this new image of Dinah and cast their minds back to any piece of information they may feel is relevant."At the time when she disappeared McNicol wore her dark hair in plaits or dreadlocks, or covered in a headscarf, the detective said. She also wore black Dr Martens-style boots and carried a green drawstring bag.