Police have arrested two of 16 suspects said to have shouted racist and homophobic chants at a match between Portsmouth and Tottenham Hotspur in September. Hampshire police had released pictures of the suspects, caught on camera by a police officer at the match at Fratton Park, Portsmouth.A 28-year-old man from Ringwood, Hampshire, is being questioned on suspicion of indecent or racial chanting at a designated football match after attending a police station in Portsmouth. A 36-year-old man from Wokingham is also being questioned after attending a Portsmouth police station.  Fans sought by police over indecent chanting against Sol Campbell. Photograph: Hampshire police/PASuperintendent Neil Sherrington said upon the release of the photos: "As part of our investigation into indecent chanting at Fratton Park, we have identified 16 people we would like to speak to. Our inquiry is aimed at identifying and putting before the court those individuals who engaged in unacceptable behaviour at this public event.  Police have released pictures of 16 people in the crowd they want to speak to. Photograph: Hampshire police/PA"Their abuse caused distress to some supporters and was targeted at an individual. We want to send a clear message that abuse of this kind will not be tolerated and that we are taking robust action. I'd urge anyone who recognises these people to contact us as soon as possible."Portsmouth have reiterated that there is "no place" for homophobia in football and have welcomed a police investigation. Pompey's communications director, Gary Double, said: "There is no place for it in football and that is the view of most people in the game and most fans. The police involvement in this matter can have a positive effect. Sol is co-operating with the police investigations and has given them his views on it."Peter Tatchell, the human rights activist for OutRage!, has urged the FA to bring policies for dealing with homophobia in line with those of racism. "The abuse against Sol Campbell is totally unacceptable. Bigotry has no place in any sport," he said. "At all matches, stewards should be required to identify fans who shout homophobic abuse and the FA should secure the agreement of the police to arrest them in the same way that they arrest racist fans."The offence of indecent or racist chanting at a designated football match under the Football Offences Act 1991 can be punished by a fine of up to £1,000 and can also lead to ban on attending matches.Anyone with information should contact Operation Decorum on 0845 0454545 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.