PR guru Max Clifford pinned a 19-year-old woman against a wall and pushed his tongue into her mouth, a court was told on MondayHe put his hand on her waist, going up towards her breast, in the incident just outside his office, she said.The woman, who managed to wriggle free, saw him on a later occasion apparently being given oral sex by his secretary, Southwark crown court heard.The woman is one of seven alleged victims of indecent assault by Clifford, 70.She told the court she worked for an American in an office near Clifford's, in 1975. She used to show people to Clifford's office when they had meetings with him and put calls through to him.One evening at about 5pm, she went to collect any post, or cups from Clifford's office before going home.She said: "As I was walking down the corridor, he came out of his office, walked a couple of steps, and then suddenly veered towards me, quite quickly, pushed me up against the wall, and sort of pinned me there, with his body. He pushed his tongue into my mouth and tried to French kiss me."She was stunned for a few seconds, she added. "He had one hand on the wall, and the other started moving up my side, and started to touch me. I made an effort to wriggle and turn and I went under his arm, which was up against the wall, and I walked off and back to my office."After that, when at work, she felt uncomfortable, the court heard, but she was buying a house and did not want to cause any trouble. Not very long afterwards, she walked to his office again, and pushed open the door, which was slightly ajar."I saw his secretary, she was on her knees, she appeared to be giving him oral sex while he was in the chair. I was quite shocked, backed away very quickly and went back to my desk," she told the court.Richard Horwell QC, cross-examining, suggested that she did not work in an office that shared space with Clifford."Yes, I have," she said. And when he suggested that the incident outside Clifford's office had never occurred, she responded: "I'd have to be completely mad, wouldn't I? I'm not mad, and it did happen."The incident with his secretary had happened as well, she said.Clifford, from Hersham, Surrey, is accused of 11 counts of indecent assault against seven women and girls. He denies all the charges.Another woman told how Clifford allegedly coerced her into performing a sex act on him with her hand in his office.The court has already heard a suggestion that his penis is tiny and the woman said it was freakishly small and no more than two and a half inches when erect.The woman, who is not one of the alleged victims in the case, said she had a friend who worked for Clifford as a receptionist at the time, 1982.She had been to his offices about five times and this particular lunchtime he called her into his personal office, she said."He said an actress in Dynasty had had an accident when she was on holiday, riding a horse on a beach, and had broken her arm. They were filming over here, and he said he thought I would make a really good Fallon."I knew that it was true – I had seen it on the news or read it in the newspapers."I remember saying that it was madness and that I was not an actress, and had no acting experience, so it seemed ludicrous."He said he would get the director of Dynasty, Aaron Spelling, to ring her about it, and later she had a call from someone speaking in a camp American accent who identified himself as Spelling. The caller told her he was sure that Clifford fancied him, but Clifford had a hang-up about the size of his penis and that was why Clifford would not have a relationship with him.The woman, who suspected it was Clifford speaking, said she told "Spelling" that she could not go into Clifford's office and ask him to take his trousers down.On another occasion she was at Clifford's offices and he called her into his office again, she said. He asked her if Spelling had called her and she ended up recounting the phone call.He then walked around his desk, took his trousers down, and stood with his back against the door. She complied with his wish for her to masturbate him, saying: "I was out of my depth, it seemed like the easiest option, to comply."She said the incident made her angry. "I've been angry about it, more than upset, because of the way I'd been coerced, used and I had been a laughing stock."She added: "He was a powerful man, and I was a failed model."She agreed that she had described Clifford's penis as freakishly small.Asked by Rosina Cottage QC, prosecuting, to give more details, she wept and said: "I feel like I'm being really rude about someone."She added: "It's no more than two and a half inches erect, fairly normal girth."Horwell has told the court that Clifford's penis is of average size.The hearing continues.