A woman who stole more than £500,000 from her employer to fund a luxurious lifestyle with her younger lover has been jailed for three years.Sheena Warner almost bankrupted her boss’s quarrying business, a court heard. She went on holiday to Sharm el-Sheikh in Egypt three times a year, invested in an overseas leisure complex and drove a Land Rover, the court was told.Warner, 65 – who was trusted to look after the finances of Julian Palmer’s quarrying business – falsified accounts to hide the fraud. She also lied to a suspicious bank manager, telling them she wrote cheques to herself to repay money she had loaned to Palmer.Warner, from Evesham, Worcestershire, stole £514,679 from Palmer over four years, causing his marriage to break up and ruining his retirement plans, the court heard.Alison Scott-Jones, defending, said Warner had fallen in love with a younger man and “allowed herself to be used to channel monies which she didn’t get the benefit of”.The fraud was uncovered in 2013 when Palmer’s bank manager told him his business account was £20,000 over his agreed overdraft limit, the prosecutor, Alistair Haggerty, told Gloucester crown court. Palmer confronted Warner and she admitted she had stolen more than £100,000 from him during 2013 and agreed to sell her house, car and other assets to repay him.She paid him £142,000 to cover what she had admitted stealing but hid from him the full extent of her crimes, the court heard. “When Mr Palmer ordered bank statements from all three accounts it became clear she had stolen over £514,000 since 2009,” Haggerty said. “Further inquiries revealed that invoices had not been paid since July 2013 and there was an estimated £40,000 in outstanding bills. “HM Revenue and Customs were owed £233,000 in unpaid taxes. She had in fact spent the money set aside for PAYE and the Inland Revenue on herself. Mrs Warner had covered her tracks by falsifying the accounts. There was clearly an element of planning and the fraud went on for a period of time and there was a large degree of trust and autonomy that Mrs Warner enjoyed.”Warner started working for Palmer as a secretary in 1999 and was promoted to personal assistant in 2007. She admitted the fraud when she was interviewed by police in September last year.Haggerty said: “She admitted writing the cheques and transferring the money. She stated the money was used to pay towards her house and holidays to Egypt and she admitted falsifying records in the accounts. She took three holidays a year to Sharm el-Sheikh and she also invested in a leisure complex.”The court also heard details of Palmer’s victim impact statement, in which he detailed how the theft had destroyed his life. “My life has changed considerably since this theft came to light – it has been the worst year of my life,” he said. “We thought we would be declared bankrupt and the stress was too much for my wife, who left me. I cannot sleep, I lost 2st in weight and I ended up on medication.”Palmer, 66 – who has worked in the quarrying industry for more than 40 years and founded Cotswold Stone Quarries, based in Naunton near Cheltenham – said his financial future was now bleak and he feared for the jobs of the 30 people he employed.“My retirement has been put on hold and my retirement fund has been stolen and my wife has left me,” he said.“I knew Sheena Warner for 15 years and I trusted her so much – the betrayal is as bad as the actual stealing and I never thought she would steal from me. The deception has affected me badly and I no longer trust anybody.”Warner pleaded guilty to a single charge of fraud between January 2009 and November 2013. Scott-Jones said when the fraud was uncovered Warner sold everything she owned to pay Palmer back. “Her home, her car and all her private goods – they were all seized and sold and she was effectively left with the clothes she was standing up in,” Scott-Jones said. “She has lost everything as a consequence of her behaviour. My client was flattered by the attention of a younger man, who didn’t exactly con her but certainly tricked her. She is very embarrassed about getting into that position.“She got herself into a long-term relationship and allowed herself to be used to channel monies which she didn’t get the benefit of.”Scott-Jones told the court that Warner looked after her two grandchildren four or five days a week while her daughters went out to work, and that a third grandchild was due in December.Recorder Gordon Bebb QC, jailing Warner for three years, told her that her offending was so serious only a custodial sentence could be justified.“You were trusted by the company and the company director, Mr Palmer, who regarded you as a friend,” Bebb said. “When you were confronted you did admit you had been stealing straight away but you didn’t admit the full amount of your stealing. You put the livelihoods of the people that worked for these companies at risk and you gave Mr Palmer the worst 12 months of his life.”