Police have arrested two teenagers after a 14-year-old boy was stabbed to death in a north London park.The boys aged 14 and 15 were held in connection with the death of Leroy James, Scotland Yard said.Police and an air ambulance were called to Ponders End recreation ground in Enfield at about 5.30pm on Wednesday. They arrived to find Leroy fatally injured in the centre of the park.Attempts to resuscitate him failed and he was pronounced dead at the scene. Officers said there was no evidence that his death was gang-related. They believed he had been in an altercation with at least one other youth.The teenager's father, also called Leroy, visited the scene on Thursday to pay tribute to "a pretty quiet boy" and football enthusiast who would be remembered.The 41-year-old scrap metal dealer, from nearby Edmonton Green, said he found out about the attack when one of his son's friends called him."I was at home," he said. "[Leroy's friend] just said to me if I heard what happened. He said Leroy has been stabbed and had been taken to the Royal Free hospital. But actually he was still in the park until 2am."Detective Chief Inspector Caroline Goode of the Metropolitan police appealed for more witnesses to come forward. "We know from what witnesses have told us so far that Leroy was in an altercation with at least one other boy," she said. "I'm completely open-minded as to the motive at this stage."There's certainly no evidence or any intelligence at this time that this is a gang-related murder."Goode described Leroy as "a 14-year-old young man who didn't deserve to lose his life", adding: "People who were there will know who has done this. We want to hear from anyone who was in the park at 5.30pm and can help us … there will be a lot of people who were in the park and a lot of talk in the community. We plead with people to come forward."Darren Griffiths, who lives in a flat backing on to the scene, said he had seen police taping off the area at 5.30pm. "I knew it was something fatal," the 39-year-old said. "It's normally peaceful around here. They've just built an outside gym here which is where the kids hang out and where it's taken place."Last week we had the kids walking through the park from the riots but apart from that it's quiet."The 10th fatal stabbing of a teenager in London this year sparked both sadness and anger. One resident said he was not surprised: "Things happen in that park at night."Many in the area complained that the local police station had recently closed. It is 50 metres from the entrance to the park where Leroy was killed.Hazel Nelson-Williams, the founder of anti-youth crime group the Nelson Williams Foundation, said it had been a mistake to close the station. "If that young man had had the opportunity to run away, where would he have run to?" she asked. "In light of what's happened, cutting police numbers is not the right thing to do."Enfield has significant areas of deprivation alongside streets of comfortable suburban homes. It experienced a night of riots and looting on 7 August. The disturbances spread from the town centre east towards Ponders End.According to Scotland Yard figures knife crime involving young people in London has risen by almost 10% over the past year, with a bigger increase in the number of youths injured in knife attacks in the past few years.