Police today launched a murder inquiry into the stabbing of a 17-year-old boy after he intervened when a gang took a mobile from his friends in east London.The teenager, named by his family as Rizwan Darbar, was attacked as he walked through West Ham Park, Newham, late yesterday afternoon. He died at Newham General hospital shortly before 7pm. No arrests have yet been made.His brother Tausif, 19, said he was told of the stabbing after being called by Rizwan's friends."The first I knew about it was when I got a phone call. I came straight to the park and the ambulance was already here. Rizwan was on a stretcher," he said. "I was asking his friends and the police what had happened. I didn't think it was too major to start with."They had given Rizwan morphine. He was in a lot of pain. And then I went with him in the ambulance."I spoke to him in the ambulance. He was saying that it was nothing much, that they were having a laugh and then these boys approached them."Mr Darbar said Rizwan was taken straight into surgery after arriving at the hospital and doctors later came out and told the family that he had suffered a cardiac arrest.Speaking at the scene today, Detective Chief Inspector Matt Horne said the friends had been listening to music on a mobile phone when they were approached by three older youths. He said: "They were approached by three young black lads in their mid to late teens. The boys were listening to music on the phone and that was taken from them. At the instigation of one of the youths, the third stabbed the victim."Mr Horne said: "Rizwan and his friends were doing nothing other than listening to music on the phone. They were reasonable lads doing nothing whatsoever," the Press Association reported. The attack was "an unprovoked robbery with gratuitous violence that did not need to be there for the purpose of stealing the phones".In August, Gordon Brown promised to pass legislation to deal with the growing problem of teenage gang culture.The prime minister made the pledge after he and the home secretary, Jacqui Smith, held a Downing Street youth crime "summit" with the police and voluntary agencies to step up their efforts after a spate of stabbings and shootings involving young people.Downing Street has tried to calm the growing political furore over knife crime, saying crime overall had fallen and that the punishments for carrying a knife are now much tougher.The Home Office has disputed recent crime figures from the Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, at King's College, London, which claimed that while 10% of robberies (25,500 cases) involved a knife in 2004-05, that proportion had reached 20% (64,000) by 2006-07.Home Office officials said the figures were a crude extrapolation of British Crime Survey figures, and there was no statistically significant increase in the use of knives in violent incidents.