The Soham caretaker, Ian Huntley, attempted suicide inside the special "close supervision unit" of the prison dubbed Britain's Alcatraz after hoarding more than two dozen anti-depressant pills and hiding them in teabags in his cell, prison service sources said yesterday.Doctors were last night fighting to save Huntley's life. He is due to stand trial at the Old Bailey in October for the murders of the two 10-year-olds Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman. Huntley, 28, was last night said to be stable after the drugs overdose and was in the intensive care unit of a Buckinghamshire hospital. He was taken to hospital from Woodhill prison, Milton Keynes, which also holds prisoners accused or convicted of some of the most serious crimes in Britain. A prison spokeswoman said he was unconscious, but not in a coma. The Home Office asked for the hospital to remain anonymous for security reasons. Huntley is believed to have been suffering fits and convulsions when he was discovered at around 3am yesterday by prison officers inside the spe cial close supervision unit at Woodhill. He had been on a 24-hour "suicide watch" inside the high security unit since last October when it was ruled that he was fit to stand trial. Prison service sources said this would have involved checks on him, not necessarily every 15 minutes but at least once an hour. The prison service last night said a "thorough investigation" had been ordered into the incident of "serious self-harm". Ministers are being kept informed. A spokeswoman said that despite reports of a previous suicide attempt, there was no record of any medical intervention. Last night, a Tory front bench home affairs spokesman, James Paice, whose constituency covers Soham, wrote to the home secretary demanding a full inquiry. "I find it quite astonishing that a man who was apparently on a suicide watch was able to obtain the means with which to try to kill himself. I want to know what happened, how it happened and who is responsible." The newly appointed prisons minister, Paul Goggins, was awoken to be told the news. It is believed the governor of Leicester prison, Rob Kellet, has been asked to carry out the internal investigation and report to ministers by Fri day. The governor of Woodhill, Paul Haley, is believed to have only been in post for 10 days. Huntley had been undergoing treatment for depression. Mark Freeman, deputy general secretary of the Prison Officers' Association, said he found it inexplicable that Huntley could accumulate more than two dozen anti-depressant pills. Mark Leech, editor of the Prisons Handbook, said Huntley should not have been able to have any medication in his cell: "If he is on medication, it should be given as liquid or tablets, and staff should see him swallow it." Huntley was effectively being held in his own private prison and had no contact with other inmates. Police were confident he would not get a chance to kill himself. Privately, Cambridgeshire police were furious the suicide bid had been allowed to happen. Tim Alban Jones, vicar of St Andrew's church in Soham, said: "Obviously this is a very worrying development. But our thoughts throughout all of this have been for the families of Holly and Jessica." He said Soham had been shocked by the news. "We thought this would not have happened because he has been in a secure unit."