New figures released today show that prison violence has soared 600% in a decade - as the government appeared to be fighting moves to make prison governors liable for deaths in jails.The home secretary, John Reid, revealed that violent incidents in British jails - now at maximum capacity - had reached nearly 14,000 a year, up from 2,342 in 1996. Meanwhile, peers in the House of Lords debating new manslaughter legislation today are expected to extend the bill to cover deaths in jail. Unconfirmed reports have suggested that the government is willing to pull the entire bill, already delayed by nearly a decade, rather than allow prison governors to face possible manslaughter charges. The former head of the prison inspectors, Lord Ramsbotham, said that any threat by the government to pull the bill would be "the most extraordinary kind of political blackmail".The corporate manslaughter and corporate homicide bill goes before the Lords today. Lord Ramsbotham told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "I would have imagined that a responsible home secretary would want cases where management or the duty of care in something for which he was responsible had failed to be brought into the open and the person responsible for that failure to be disciplined, whether by a court of law or something else. "To say we are going to pull the bill if that is insisted on seems to me the most extraordinary kind of political blackmail which I would have thought unworthy of a home secretary." Ministers have argued that deaths in jails can already be adequately investigated by public inquiries, inquests and internal prison inquiries. But Lord Ramsbotham said that only one public inquiry had been held into a death in custody, while the results of internal investigations are not made public and inquests are only required to find the cause of death. And he rejected claims that use of the corporate manslaughter law would mean government policy being scrutinised in the courts. "We are saying - exactly the same as the rest of the bill - that this is about a failure in management or a failure in duty of care," he said. "It is nothing to do with government policy or resources at all." Anne Owers, the chief inspector of prisons, said last week that British jails were now in a "serious crisis." The figures, released in a letter from Mr Reid to the Liberal Democrats, showed that the number of violent incidents spiralled from 2,342 in 1996 to 13,771 in 2005. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said prison violence was a consequence of overcrowding. She said: "Prison numbers have risen from 61,467 in 1997 to over 80,000 today, with no proportionate rise in the number of prison staff, basic training cut back to just eight weeks and most governors moving on after less than two years in post. "We have 90 prisons overcrowded and high numbers of vulnerable, volatile people are in transit from one unknown jail to another. "No surprise then that reconviction rates have soared, self-harm has reached an epidemic level and violent incidents are commonplace." Sir Menzies Campbell, the leader of the Liberal Democrats, said: "If you keep putting people on an already crowded ship eventually the ship will start to sink. "Prisons are so full they have become ineffective and increasingly dangerous."