The family of missing four-year-old Madeleine McCann yesterday released an image of the face of a man they believe could be involved in her disappearance, as they launched an international appeal to trace him.Drawn by an FBI-trained police artist, it is the first detailed likeness of any suspect in the eight-month-old case. He was described as "disturbing" and acting suspiciously by a British holidaymaker who came across him at her apartment 600 yards from that of the McCanns in the same resort in Portugal.The long-haired man seen by Gail Cooper, 50, three times in late April last year, was said by Jane Tanner, a friend of the McCanns, to bear a "strong resemblance" to the man she saw carrying a child in pink pyjamas and bare feet from the complex on May 3, the night Madeleine vanished.Clarence Mitchell, Kate and Gerry McCann's official spokesman, said that when shown the sketches, Tanner was struck by the likeness to the man she had seen carrying the child she now believes was Madeleine.However, in a BBC Panorama interview in November Tanner said she could not remember, or did not see, the face of the man she saw carrying the child.At a news conference in London, Mitchell said: "Our main objective is to find this man, to find who he is. We believe he is a link to finding Madeleine and with the grace of God we believe we will find Madeleine McCann."The McCanns' private investigators, Metodo 3, spoke to Cooper last week. They hired artist Melissa Little to draw two images based on the interview. Cooper, from Newark, Nottinghamshire, originally gave police a statement in May.It was Little who did the early drawings of the faceless man carrying a child in pyjamas based on Tanner's statements.The drawings, including that of the man walking, wearing a safari jacket and light-coloured trousers, have been passed to the police.Cooper described seeing an olive-skinned man in his 30s or early 40s with a drooping moustache and scraggy, collar-length hair, on a number of occasions at the resort, according to Mitchell. He is described as being of slim build, 5ft 7in to 5ft 10in tall, and was wearing light-coloured clothes.Cooper said she saw the man walking alone in a downpour on the deserted beach at Praia da Luz on April 20. Later the same afternoon, she said the same "unpleasant" man knocked on her apartment door. She said he was nervous and agitated and claimed to be collecting for a local orphanage.He spoke fairly good English, but with a heavy accent. She thought he might have been from Africa, perhaps Tunisia, but possibly from Spain. She did not think he was Portuguese.Mitchell said that two days later Cooper, who was on holiday with her husband, John, saw the same man hanging around a children's outing to the beach organised by the Mark Warner resort. Madeleine took part in the same outings in the days leading up to her disappearance.Mitchell said that when she saw the sketches, one a full-face portrait, the other showing him walking, Cooper described the first as an "excellent" likeness and the second as "very good".In the Panorama interview, Tanner said she lived with the burden of knowing that in all probability she could never identify the man she glimpsed only briefly that night."He had his face turned away from me, sort of sideways and it was very dark. I just didn't see it properly I wish to God I had," she said. She told the programme she thought the man was "local or Mediterranean looking rather than British". She said: "He was dressed in that sort of smart casual way that European people dress, not the way Brits on holiday dress."The McCann team has drawn up a plan of how they wish the investigation to proceed. It includes a worldwide search for the man, coordinated by a central telephone number manned by Metodo 3. The McCanns also want a full review of all police records and statements, including one taken from a 12-year-old girl who reported sightings of a strange man in the Portuguese resort last May.Thirdly, Mitchell called for complete collaboration between the Portuguese police, Interpol and the authorities in Spain, Morocco and Britain.