A man apparently stabbed two burglars before jumping in a panic from a first-storey window of his home during the early hours of yesterday.The 41-year-old householder is thought to have taken a knife to the intruders, who woke him up as he slept in his bedroom in Colindale, north-west London.Police said the victim had stabbed at least one of the burglars, although they were unsure yesterday where the knife had come from.In a struggle the man became frightened and jumped from his window. He landed 4.5 metres (15ft) below, on concrete slabs outside his two-storey semi-detached house.Neighbours described being woken by his cries as he lay in his front garden, having fallen from the window just before 4am. They alerted police, who called the the ambulance service.It was originally thought that the man had been thrown from the window by the burglars, but he later he told police he had leapt out to escape them.The man was taken to hospital, where his condition was described as stable.A police spokesman said: "We believe the suspects, described as white youths, were in the process of burgling the premises when the confrontation occurred. We are looking into whether anything was taken."Police urged the suspects, now nursing stab wounds, to go to the nearest hospital, as their injuries could be serious. "Even if they do not think they are serious there is a considerable risk of infection," a spokesman said.A neighbour, who did not wish to be named, told the London Evening Standard: "I was woken by the sound of men fighting each other. Then I could hear a man's scream. It sounded as if he was in agony."After the attack police brought helicopters and dogs to the normally quiet area, to see if the would-be robbers were hiding nearby. No one was found. Detective Chief Inspector Peter Edwards, speaking outside the cordoned-off house yesterday, said: "There was some blood in the bedroom but the cut was not arterial."There was no reason to suggest there was a link with any other burglaries in the area. This is usually a very quiet area, violent burglaries are extremely rare."Mr Edwards warned against victims of crime fighting off their attackers. "I would not recommend tackling a burglar like this," he said. "This man has ended up with quite serious injuries, and it is not something people should do if they are disturbed by a burglar."