Last week, Tony Blair championed the withdrawal of child benefit from parents whose children repeatedly truant from school. Some of his Cabinet colleagues appear to disagree. It is an overtly conservative position and might be perceived as designed to appeal to exactly the sort of working-class Conservative vote that now appears to be free from its once-secure political moorings. Indeed, Silvio Berlusconi in Italy and Jean-Marie Le Pen in France like to claim that they are no more right wing than the Prime Minister. However, there is an important distinction to be made here. Whatever else it is, New Labour is neither in alliance with the extreme Right or overtly racist. It is seeking to fashion a social democratic consensus which includes huge investment in the NHS.The benefit issue touches pertinently on the framework of rights and obligations upon which any society is based. Of course, there are anxieties that such a move might exacerbate the poverty of blameless parents. However, too many parents now abdicate almost complete responsibility for their children to teachers, as if they have no fundamental role to play themselves in nurturing the life-chances of their offspring. Negligent parents all too easily condemn their children to an adult poverty both of aspiration and income. Public policy requires some overt statement of the obligation that all parents have to ensure that their children are properly educated. Potential withdrawal of benefit for parents with truant children could quickly become an acknowledged penalty. There might be transitional problems of poverty while the policy kicked in, but once the rules were understood it is entirely possible they would be respected and elicit more parental involvement in children's school-attendance records. Precisely the same logic applies in the case of reframing housing benefit so it could be withdrawn from so-called 'families from hell' whose members terrorise whole neighbourhoods with criminal or petty criminal acts. The advantage of such an approach is threefold. First, it might work. Second, it establishes the principle that obligations accompany rights. And third, it would be popular, helping to relegitimise the welfare system. Above all, none of this means that a raft of existing policies, such as mentoring difficult families, should be withdrawn. They should continue to be part of a comprehensive mix of approaches. Truancy, delinquency and teenage crime need to be tackled aggressively and imaginatively by the Government, not only as problems in themselves, but because of the dangerous political opportunity they present the Right.