A young mother wept in the witness box yesterday as she described how two policemen subjected her to a horrific rape ordeal when they were supposed to be helping her after an assault.The 23-year-old woman claimed the on-duty officers carried out the attack in her living room in the early hours of September 20, last year, knowing her three children and a male babysitter were asleep upstairs. The two constables had been called to her aid earlier when a man allegedly punched her in the head in a post-pub row in the centre of Godalming, Surrey, and they gave her a lift home. Richard Onslow QC, prosecuting, told Winchester crown court that she did not report the rape at the time because she had been very drunk and feared she would not be believed. Mr Onslow said the story only came to light when the two policemen boasted to colleagues about "spit roasting" the mother-of-three - each having her perform oral sex on them while the other penetrated her. The two officers were suspended from Surrey constabulary in January, pending an investigation. Police interviewed the alleged victim and she told them she had been raped. The two defendants were arrested and charged in early February. Semen found on the skirt worn by the woman the night of the alleged rape matched the two policemen's DNA, Mr Onslow said. They eventually admitted in interviews they had sex with her but claimed it was consensual. Mark Witcher, 29, of Drayton, Hampshire, and 30-year-old Andrew Lang, of Whitehill Borden, Hampshire, both deny rape and indecent assault. They also pleaded not guilty to three charges each of wilful misconduct while holding a public office - engaging in sexual activity while on duty, lying to the police control room, and failing to report the original assault allegations. The alleged victim told the court she had been on a night out with friends in Godalming and was on the way home when they got into an argument with three men. One of the men hit her on the head, a friend called the police and the two officers arrived. They offered to drive her around to look for the assailant but abandoned the search and took her home. In the car, they made remarks about the size of her chest. She was, by her own admission, "really drunk", having downed about 12 double vodkas with Red Bull, and dizzy from the blow to her head, so the policemen helped her into her house. When she saw one of them on her sofa, with his trousers down, she tried to flee the room but her way was blocked by the other officer. The alleged victim broke down as she told the jury of nine men and three women how the policemen "spun her round like a rag doll", as they forced themselves on her. "They were saying girls like me deserved it, saying I was dirty, and they knew I fucking liked it," sobbed the witness. "I just kept saying 'Get the fuck off me, get off.'" She said she did not scream louder because she was afraid of waking the children. "I didn't want the children to come downstairs and I didn't want them to see anything bad happening to their mum." She said one officer broke off briefly to answer his police radio, telling the caller he was just leaving the woman's home, before continuing to rape her. When they finished, one of them thanked her before they drove off laughing. She said she scrubbed herself in the bath before collapsing on her bed in tears. She staunchly rejected suggestions by Antony Chinn QC, for Mr Witcher, that she had initiated sex with the defendants. The case continues.