Tom ap Rhys Pryce's fiancée, Adele Eastman, today revealed the "indescribable" pain and horror she has suffered since his murder, for which two teenagers have been sentenced to life at the Old Bailey.Ms Eastman, who had been due to marry Mr ap Rhys Pryce in September, told how she felt the killers had "ripped out my heart with their bare hands and torn it very slowly into pieces".Donnel Carty, 19, and Delano Brown, 18, were convicted yesterday of murdering the 31-year-old City lawyer as he walked home from Kensal Green tube station, north-west London, in January this year. Carty, of Kensal Green, was sentenced by Mr Justice Aikens to serve a minimum of 21 years in prison. Brown, of Sudbury Hill, north-west London, will serve at least 17 years.They also attacked and robbed another man at the same station less than 20 minutes earlier, and used both victims' mobile phones later that night, the court heard during the trial.The killers sat impassively in the dock today as Ms Eastman's impact statement was read by prosecuting counsel Richard Horwell QC in a packed but silent courtroom."I must start by saying that my sense of pain and horror at losing Tom and in such a brutal way is literally indescribable," the statement read. "I have found it almost impossible to even try to put it into words but hope that I manage to convey it at least to some extent through my statement."Tom was determined from an early age to reach his full potential in life. He worked incredibly hard and made the most of every opportunity available to him. He gave his best in everything he did and he succeeded. Yet despite his many achievements, he was the most humble person I have ever known."Ms Eastman, 32, sat at the back of the court with Mr ap Rhys Pryce's parents, Estella and John, as her statement was read out, occasionally wiping away tears."In a matter of seconds wedding plans and a future together had changed to funeral plans and a lifetime apart. The pain is unlike anything I have ever experienced and unlike anything I could have ever imagined."I feel as though Carty and Brown have ripped out my heart with their bare hands and torn it very slowly into pieces. Witnessing the pain that our families and friends are also suffering only adds to my own."The waves of devastation caused by Carty and Brown's greed and bravado roll on and on. The attack which they carried out on Tom was barbaric, they showed him no mercy and have shown absolutely no remorse since."The judge told Carty and Brown that he could not determine who wielded the knife but he considered both to be equally guilty."Mr ap Rhys Pryce had the grave misfortune to be in the wrong place at the wrong time," he said. "He was true to his nature. He was not going to let two youths rob him in the street where he lived. He was stabbed with a knife."That caused immense suffering. You have shown no remorse as yet. I can only hope that in the future you will have some glimpse of how dreadful your crime was and the suffering you have caused."Outside the court after the sentencing, John ap Rhys Pryce said the "callous and senseless" murder had devastated the lives of his family and friends."We hope that the sentence will send out a message to other youths who habitually carry knives. As Rio Ferdinand said yesterday, knives are not cool and we must get this message across. It is imperative we stamp out the knife culture in our cities," he said.Relieved of £20, a mobile phone and an Oyster travelcard for use on the underground, Mr ap Rhys Pryce's last words were: "That is everything, you have got everything."Carty and Brown led a gang called the "KG tribe", referring to the Kensal Green area. They had previously committed a series of robberies that followed a sadistic pattern, the court was told.Each victim was intimidated with knives and would be stabbed in the leg or "juked" if they dared to resist. The pair would then call girlfriends on the phones they had stolen. Carty used Mr ap Rhys Price's phone to call a girlfriend after the robbery. Detectives located him by tracing the caller. He also used the victim's Oyster travelcard on public transport.Police believe they were responsible for as many as 90 attacks over a two-month period. Carty, who liked to be called Armani, was arrested for a mugging a month before the killing. He was dressed in the same outfit, including a white woolly hat he wore on the night of the murder. He could not be charged because the victim could not identify him.The court heard that Mr ap Rhys Price was an esteemed lawyer at the City firm Linklaters, a graduate of Trinity College, Cambridge, who had studied at Marlborough College. His parents, from Weybridge, Surrey, were overjoyed when he agreed to marry Ms Eastman, who worked for the solicitors Farrer and Co.