Rank and file police officers yesterday launched a pre-emptive strike against radical plans to reform their service by claiming that up to 25,000 full-time officers would be lost in the change.The Police Federation chair, Jan Berry, told her organisation's annual conference in Bournemouth, Dorset, that police chiefs intended to slash almost one in five officer posts within five years through natural wastage.According to the claims, forces would take on cheaper police community support officers, under plans being drawn up by the Association of Chief Police Officers.Last night Acpo sources told the Guardian that plans for a radical reform of the workforce had gone to No 10 and the Home Office, but without spelling out the cuts.Acpo sources said most police leaders wanted to "modernise" their workforces, and believed that by using more police community support officers and civilian staff for administration and less demanding tasks, the fully trained police officers could spend more time fighting crime. The figure of 25,000 fewer police officers than the current level of 141,000 in England and Wales is seen as the highest figure, with the lowest estimate being 8,000 if ministers and Tony Blair back Acpo's plans.Ken Jones, the president of Acpo, admitted: "It would be irresponsible not to look at future scenarios, even those we do not like. The fact is that if all signalled reforms were to take place, including restructuring, this would inevitably impact on the money we have to pay for police officers and staff." He said Acpo was working with the government and had agreed that the police reform programme had to be altered to make it "sensible and affordable".The government has sought credit for its crime fighting credentials by hailing the rise in frontline police numbers since Labour came to power. Acpo is to debate the reform measures at their conference next week, but yesterday the Police Federation, which opposed the plans, highlighted the cut in police officer numbers on the day the home secretary, John Reid, addressed their conference.Mr Reid said he understood Acpo was looking at a range of options. He thought community support officers should play a supporting role rather than be a substitute for frontline officers.Mrs Berry, who represents 130,000 officers, said: "We would end up with a paramilitary force only dealing with confrontational situations. That would be a tragedy for British policing. If disaster happens and we don't have the response, we are going to take the blame ... the public will be put at risk. This is cheaper policing not better policing." She said there were already recruitment freezes in some of the police forces.Police chiefs say the yearly cost of a fully trained officer is £35,000, but that of a community support officer is £25,000.