They are nondescript plastic rectangles, worth £4 in raw materials. But yesterday the government revealed how thousands of pounds and hours of scientific endeavour have been spent trying to keep vehicle numberplates out of the hands of thieves and fraudsters.After two years' research by the leading manufacturer, the holy grail of the thief-proof plate is said to be close at hand.It fell to Stephen Ladyman, the roads minister, to unveil a plate so cunningly affixed with brackets, bolts and adhesive that even the most determined thief might walk away. It has "three-minute attack resistance" so, apparently, will not yield to "hand tools, modified tools, battery operated drills, screw removal tools, or any combination of the above".Billed as "the world's first anti-theft plate" and approved by the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency, it is made to collapse into at least four pieces if levered off, with none of the fragments accounting for more than half the plate, making reassembly impractical.Hardly a giant step for mankind. But ministers hope it will curb congestion charge fraud, parking fraud, petrol thefts and ram-raid incidents.Police chiefs also need to reduce the theft and illegal transfer of numberplates because they want to expand the use of automatic numberplate recognition. Numberplate recognition will be seriously compromised if vehicles being monitored are stolen or cloned.The AA Motoring Trust says that at least 33,000 plates are stolen each year, 6,000 in London alone, and last year it emerged that losses to petrol stations from drive-off thefts had amounted to £14m.The new plates will not be compulsory but Mr Ladyman said that manufacturers were already keen to fit them: "It is a relatively simple, low-cost solution. Do I think people will find a way around it? Yes ... but it is an important contribution."Paul Watters, the AA Motoring Trust's head of transport policy, said moves to tighten the procedure for obtaining plates legally had forced criminals and fraudsters to rely on stolen ones.The hunt for a numberplate secure from thieves has taken many forms. Some police forces have been encouraging drivers to secure plates using powerful double-sided silicone tape. Last year the Department for Transport announced trials to develop "electronic" plates fitted with a unique microchip matching the plate to the vehicle.But in Newham, London, the police and council have their own solution. Officers have been touring supermarkets urging motorists to reinforce plates with the glue that is used to assemble fish tanks. The idea was proposed by an officer whose brother uses the adhesive in his pet shop.