There are many, no doubt, who dearly wish that his time in the nick had taught Jeffrey Archer the value of keeping a low profile. But after a couple of years of lunching out with his warders and publishing unauthorised diaries the irrepressible peer has become an expert on prisons. In his first big speech since getting out, Archer last week told a conference of the Howard League for Penal Reform that an intensive 12-week reading and writing course should be introduced into prisons with a compulsory test. "The prisoner would have to pass before they could be considered for any other job," he said. "Or, even more draconian, early release."High levels of functional illiteracy in prisons are old news, and there have been numerous studies linking illiteracy with crime and recidivism. Archer is right to identify the problem but is his notion that new prisoners should be forced to do basic skills courses and be penalised for failure at the end of them feasible or desirable? No, says Alan Wells, director of the Basic Skills Agency. "Compulsory literacy classes for most 'functionally illiterate' inmates in our prisons didn't work when they were at school so I doubt whether they would work now. Too many inmates would see compulsory literacy classes as a punishment. "I favour a more positive approach that would reward inmates who tried to improve their literacy skills with privileges and early parole. However, if more opportunities are to be provided, something will have to be done about the lack of space for education in many prisons and the shortage of qualified and experienced teachers." This is a very real logistical concern. Two years ago Brixton prison was slated in a report by Sir David Ramsbotham as having "practices that were totally unacceptable in any jail". Among his concerns were that the prison had "no educational facilities worth the name". It has been left to the present board of governors to make good the situation, and last week - on the site of the former hospital that was also criticised in the Ramsbotham report - a new learning and skills unit was opened. "There had previously been the attitude that prisoners had to have a long sentence to make any difference to their education," says John Podmore, Brixton's governor. "And as a remand prison, with many inmates only spending a few weeks here, education took a back seat. We are now trying to make sure that everyone can at least register for a course, or take a module that can then be transferred." With three-quarters of Brixton's prison population having reading, writing and numerical skills below those of the average 11-year-old, Podmore acknowledges that education is a vital part of the rehabilitation process. He also concedes that much of education's initial appeal lies in the desire to escape the boredom of the wing. So attraction rather than coercion has to be the watchword. The new unit has already gone down well with the inmates. Hanina, who is awaiting sentencing, says: "I have signed up for as many courses as possible. However, you can't always do exactly what you want." And this is the problem. Brixton has a prison population of over 800 and yet the education unit can only accommodate 150, which means learning opportunities are limited. "We would like to expand," says Podmore, "but we only have limited resources." The new unit is costing £250,000 a year, all of which has to be found out of Brixton's £18m budget. "With 85% of the budget going on staff, there isn't a lot left over for everything else." But is it a prison's job to tell an inmate what to study? Why shouldn't they do art, music or computers? And would Jeffrey Archer have passed his 12-week course if he didn't have an editor to translate him?