 5.43pm BST The press conference ended after around six minutes. In response to questions about whether there was any "good news" police said:"What we've got to hold on to really is that we continue our search and the good news is that everyone is determined to follow through this."The officer giving the statement added that he was very heartened by the response from the public "it shows the public care and want to help us". We're closing this blog now. Live coverage will continue on Friday.Updated at 10.37pm BST 5.35pm BST Second police press conferenceThe press conference has started.Searches for April Jones will continue tonight. Eight specialist police search teams are involved supported by helicopters and dogs and also mountain rescue teams with over 100 people. The forecast tonight is not good the police have said so making this search harder.The help from volunteers has been described as "humbling".In response to a call out for information the police have received over 2,500 calls from the public.Updated at 5.43pm BST 5.15pm BST We are expecting a police press conference at 17:30.  5.15pm BST Maya Wolfe-Robinson one of the Guardian's legal specialists, writes about the new set of conventions around reporting a suspect's background in regards to the law of contempt of court: As people discuss the post-Leveson era of privay, we're now in a post-Jefferies era of contempt. Christopher Jefferies, following his arrest on suspicion of murdering Joanna Yeates, was subject to a character assassination by newspapers, in particular the tabloid press.They pored over details of his personal life, painting a picture that led many to speculate on his character. He was later released without charge, declared innocent of any involvement of the case and brought libel proceedings against eight papers. The Sun and Daily Mirror's press coverage was also found to have been in contempt of court, resulting in fines. The contempt action was brought by the attorney general under the Contempt of Court Act, which applies to any publication that creates a substantial risk of serious prejudice. While the law has not changed, our current attorney general, Dominic Grieve has proven that he is taking contempt very seriously. It is the AG's responsibility to initiate contempt proceedings and he has so far brought more actions in the last two years than his predecessors did in a decade.In addition Jefferies is campaigning for it to be "standard practice" for someone's personal details to be kept private until charge.While police have take the unusual step of releasing the name and a photograph of the man they have arrested on suspicion of April Jones' abduction, the media should be careful not to invite any speculation or detail that could contravene the Contempt of Court Act - which kicks in on the moment of arrest.  4.22pm BST April's sister has made a statement:Sky News Newsdesk (@SkyNewsBreak)April Jones' sister Jasmine: "that someone knows something about april's disappearance but isn't saying so makes it feel worse" #findaprilOctober 4, 2012 3.36pm BST More from the news wires on the ongoing search. This from Caters: Police searching for missing five-year-old April Jones have been scouring a house lived in by the man arrested in connection with her disappearance.A white-washed traditional Welsh cottage and a barn-like outbuilding Mark Bridger was living in were being searched by around a dozen officers today (THURS).The police were carrying large wooden sticks to aid searching through debris and undergrowth surrounding the property called 'Mount Pleasant', in the village of Corris, just nine miles from Machynlleth where April went missing on Monday night.Outside the two-storey house around four Dyfed Powys Police vans were parked and a police helicopter has been hovering overhead.Manhole covers and concrete slabs were also being lifted up and checked as the search for April seemed to enter a more sombre phase.Down at the river Dyfi, or Dovey, cadaver sniffer dogs able to track a body underwater had been deployed. 2.39pm BST As the search continues and police and volunteers continue to hunt for the missing five-year-old, the Guardian's Steven Morris writes this:The police had – very politely – requested members of the public not to join the search for April Jones. But residents of Machynlleth and the surrounding areas were having none of it.By lunchtime hundreds of people, many of whom had taken the day off work or been given leave, had defied the police and were out in the hills, valleys and forests around the town in mid-Wales carrying out their own searches for April.“We're liaising with the police to make sure that we don't get in their way at all,” said farmer Emyr Lewis, who was heading a group of 30 or so searchers in and around the village of Aberhosan, five miles south of Machynlleth. “But people want to be out there doing something. We can't just sit at home or go to work while this is going on. We can't rest until she's found.”Lewis' team were searching the banks of the small river that feeds down in the Dyfi valley, where the police's most visible efforts have been concentrated, outhouses, sheds and shepherds' huts.They have been knocking on residents' doors asking if they can look in gardens and urging them to check everywhere, even in their attics. 1.26pm BST Sky News has just tweeted this:Sky News Newsdesk (@SkyNewsBreak)Sky Sources: Police searching guest house where Mark Bridger, arrested in relation to disappearance of April Jones, worked #findaprilOctober 4, 2012 1.18pm BST Mark Bridger profileSome further biographical details on Mark Bridger, a suspect in the police investigation and currently being interviewed by police.The Guardian's Steven Morris and Sandra Laville write:Bridger was born in Sutton, south London. He has lived in Machynlleth for more than 25 years, for a time on the estate where April's family live. The Ministry of Defence is checking reports that Bridger is a former soldier.Residents said he worked as a lifeguard at Machynlleth leisure centre. He married in 1990 and is the father of at least three children; one with his ex-wife – a boy who is now 20 – and another boy and girl, 12 and 10, by another partner.Updated at 1.44pm BST 1.18pm BST steven morris(@stevenmorris20)Searchers looking for April Jones in the hills near Machynlleth #findapril twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 4, 2012 1.12pm BST After an appeal this morning by April Jones' mother Coral, for people to put pink ribbons on their doors, Steven Morris tweets this: steven morris(@stevenmorris20)Pink ribbons have started appearing in Machynlleth.#apriljones twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 4, 2012 12.01pm BST A fascinating picture from our correspondent on the scene Steven Morris.steven morris(@stevenmorris20)Volunteer searchers poring over maps before setting out to search for April Jones. twitter.com/stevenmorris20…October 4, 2012 11.56am BST The PM's account has tweeted a version of his earlier, fuller statement. UK Prime Minister (@Number10gov)PM: My heart goes out to April Jones' family. I appeal for anyone who saw or heard anything to talk to the police. #findaprilOctober 4, 2012 11.53am BST There appear to have been some tensions yesterday between police and unofficial search teams (see video below) but during the press conference superintendent Ian John said that he understood why volunteers wanted to help in the search for April and that with police co-ordination, volunteers could be very helpful "in the right place at the right time".We understand fully why people feel they want to do something practical, to get out there and find April.We want to ensure that we do all that we can to find her, and at the same time do nothing to jeopardise the efforts to locate her.We want people to come forward to provide the volunteer search co-ordinators in Machynlleth with their details and what skills and knowledge they possess.He added that the search operation is, "one of the largest of its kind in recent history". 11.28am BST    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Share Share this post  Facebook   Twitter   Pinterest   close Our correspondent Steven Morris has interviewed Carl Jones one of the organisers of the unofficial volunteer searchers.  11.25am BST PM makes appealThe prime minister has also made an appeal. His statement appeared on the Press Association news wire during the press conference:David Cameron issued a heartfelt personal appeal today for information about missing schoolgirl April Jones. The Prime Minister said the disappearance was "every family's nightmare" and urged anybody who knew anything about it to contact the police. "My heart just goes out to April's family. This is every family's nightmare, having this happen and the fact that she suffers from cerebral palsy, something I know a little about from my own children, only makes this worse," he said. "My appeal would be to everyone, if you know anything, if you saw anything, heard anything, have any ideas you can bring forward, talk to the police, help this family find their lovely child"Updated at 12.04pm BST 11.22am BST Here are direct quotes from detective superintendent Reg Bevan during the start of the conference.  The suspect Mark Bridger remains in police custody at Aberystwyth police station.He appeared before magistrates this morning where we were granted a further grant of detention which gives us in effect 36 hours, which is just before 5pm tomorrow.The investigation continues and our focus remains finding April.The investigation team will be interviewing Mark Bridger again today and we will continue to piece together his movements during the relevant times and looking to overlay his account with that which we've gleaned from witnesses and the other inquiries that we are conducting. Whilst there is a huge visible presence of police officers and search teams, there is a significant team of officers working around the clock assisting and developing the picture so we can map out to the best of our ability his movements. There is a vast amount of forensic analysis taking place which forms a crucial part of the investigation. However it will not solve it alone.So again I make an appeal to the public to help us find April and in particular we are looking to trace the movements of Mark Bridger between 6.30pm on Monday and 6.30pm Tuesday this week and any sightings of him between this time. In addition if anyone has had contact with him during this period, we urge you to come forward. and by contact I mean face-to-face contact, telephone contact, texting, social media and contact whatsoever.  11.11am BST During press conference questions police have said as of yet, there is nothing to connect any other suspect or vehicle other than Bridger and his Land Rover, to the investigation. The conference is now over and lasted just under 10 minutes in all.  11.05am BST Police press conferenceThe press conference has started and Dyfed-Powys police force have confirmed that they have been granted an extension to interview Bridger until 5pm tomorrow and will continue to interview him.They have restated their appeal to the public to help provide any information they have in connection with his movements and have also asked the public to help with the search for AprilHowever it doesn't look as if there is any substantial information to provide at this point. Updated at 12.04pm BST 10.54am BST SummaryGood morning. Welcome to our liveblog on the third day of the hunt for the five-year-old April Jones.We are expecting a police press conference at 11am which should give further details as to how the hunt for April is progressing since her disappearance on Monday evening from a local village playground.After police took the unusual step of naming a suspect they are currently questioning as 46-year-old Mark Leonard Bridger, they have successfully applied to magistrates to detain him for a longer period of time according to Sky News.Hundreds of people who turned up to search for the missing girl and were then asked to return to their homes to leave the search to professional police teams, have returned and it appears that farmers with expert knowledge of the lay of the land in this part of rural Wales have been asked by police to continue to volunteer their help.Updated at 11.06am BST