The young people walking along the busy streets around Hackney Central station yesterday afternoon appeared to be well-versed in the politics and practice of stop and search. The east London borough is one of the areas where the police powers are being used most aggressively in the hope of driving down knife crime and restoring public confidence about safety in the capital.Mohammed Kalam, an 18-year-old student on his way home from college, wearily recounted his own frequent — and mixed — experiences."It happens to me about three or four times a week when out of random they start looking at me," he said. "If I'm with my boys, they'll pull us to the side for no reason, but it happens when I'm by myself as well. Sometimes they talk to you very nicely, but most of the time they just grab you for no reason. I was coming back from college once and this guy made me take off my shoelaces and everything. He said to me: 'Those look like new trainers' and then he told me to shut up."The pros and cons of stop and search were even fresher than usual in his mind as he and his fellow students had been talking about it in a class discussion earlier in the day."I understand where [the police] are coming from but it's happened to me so many times and it mainly happens to Asian and black people," said Kalam. "When I was with two of my white friends recently they took me aside but they let them go on."Yusuf Ibrahim was stopped and searched in Hyde Park two weeks ago while waiting for a friend."[The police] said to me they had been watching me for 10 minutes and I looked suspicious, but that's where I always meet my friend," said the 20-year-old business administration student. "They searched my shoes and everything and were very rude."Ibrahim said it was the officers' lack of courtesy that bothered him more than being singled out. "People always said it happens cos they're black, but I'm white," he added. "I don't always mind getting stopped because I know the police are doing their job but being spoken too rudely loads of times is just too much."He was not the only one to admit that while the police had a duty to perform, they could execute it a with a little more sensitivity."I've been stopped and searched twice," said Kausar Hussain, who has just finished his studies and is looking for a job. "I was just walking past the police but they said I was acting suspiciously. Then they started saying: 'What are you looking at?' and I said to them, 'You see me walk past here every day' cos it's the same police. But when they were searching me they had to run across the road and search someone else."Hussain said that he and his friends are stopped on a regular basis."I think sometimes the police do it on purpose just to show their authority," he added. "They're targeting certain people — especially in Hackney — but you can't do anything about it can you?"Others were more forgiving of the police."I've been stopped a couple of times even though I just look like a nice young girl going about my business," said 21-year-old Melissa Graham. "Maybe it was the environment I was in and they were thinking: 'This girl is up to something.' I think it's a good method but not for me because I don't get involved in any of that. Half of my friends have been stopped but it depends on the circle you're in. Certain black kids affect the community and the police don't know who is who, so they stop people at random, but sometimes it makes sense."Her friend and fellow student Marsha Campbell, 23, agreed that stop and search was probably a necessary evil."I've been stopped about five times, but I understand it and I don't find it intimidating,' she said. "Some of the young people round here need to get cleaned up."Lukman Hussain was equally philosophical despite similarly mixed experiences."Once I went to an Islamic talk — it had nothing to do with terrorism; it was a talk on tackling extremism," said the 23-year-old businessman."But when we came out there were police vans there and we got stopped and searched."Still, he added: "I think that stop and search is a good thing, especially round here because a lot of the kids carry knives and the robbery rate around here is high — I've experienced it myself. I think people round here need to accept it because it's the reality."