Politicians from all sides have been discussing the new crime figures this week and the statistics make depressing reading. When talking about action against burglars, use of the word "tough" has increased 57%. When referring to violent crime, the incidence of politicians saying "tough" has gone up by a massive 71%. We are more likely to be assaulted by the phrase "more bobbies on the beat" than at any time in the past 20 years and millions now live in fear of the trauma of waking up to discover that Jack Straw is talking on the Today programme.Meanwhile the British Crime Survey has actually revealed that crime itself is going down. There are fewer burglaries, except in the areas where people keep leaving the house to attend Neighbourhood Watch meetings. There is a reduction in motor vehicle crime which is attributed to car alarms, while the increase in parked cars being attacked with a sledgehammer in the middle of the night is also attributed to car alarms. Apparently we are more likely to be robbed and assaulted by strangers, but this is hardly surprising - if you are going to mug someone you would have to be pretty stupid to try it out on your best friend.Ann Widdecombe will be disappointed that the crime figures have fallen, despite all the efforts of her Conservative colleagues in getting themselves arrested on a regular basis. One of the few perks of being shadow home secretary is being able to point to the inexorable rise in recorded offences and using this to attack your opponent. But now, as she peeks out from behind her net curtains, she will realise that she too has been the victim of a crime. When it comes to the law and order issue, Labour have stolen the Tories' clothes (although the image of Jack Straw in one of Ann Widdecombe's dresses is not something you'd want to dwell upon).  While Ann's own pronouncements are greeted with stoned giggles from her colleagues in the shadow cabinet, Labour can point to solid social and economic policies that have helped bring crime down. The massive reduction of youth unemployment, for example, must surely be a factor; quite how the Tories imagine that scrapping the new deal and the minimum wage would help reduce youth crime has not been explained. Maybe Ann had an explanation for this but it was nicked from her briefcase. Although the figures are falling, a huge percentage of crime continues to be committed by young males. There is a simple way of rectifying this imbalance: the government should introduce lots of new offences for everyone else. All sorts of anti-social behaviour continues to go unchecked in our society. For example, if you are in a long queue it should be unlawful for the person right in front of you suddenly to be joined by lots of friends. If you arrive in the cinema after the film has started, it should be an offence not to duck slightly as you walk across the front. If the film ends five minutes before last orders it should also be against the law to sit there in deep contemplation, waiting to see who was "Key Grip" while everyone else on your row has stood up and is desperate to get out and grab a swift pint. Leaving the scene of a jammed photocopier should be a criminal offence. And a new charge of digital fraud should be used to target the makers of PCs that brazenly lie at you. "Your printer is not connected." "Yes it bloody is!" There should also be a new offence of corporate stalking. I have been stalked by British Telecom for several years now. They keep sending me letters and ringing me up when I least expect it, saying they know who my friends and family are, and then offering to change them for me. Of course it could be argued that we don't need any new offences when there are so many crimes that are ignored already. None of the reporting on this week's crime figures made any reference to City fraud or big business tax evasion. Where are the interviews with old ladies saying how they are afraid to go out lest they should be offered a tip for some insider trading? Where are the big yellow signs in the City of London saying "Appeal for Witnesses - Fraud. Did you see anyone skimming the remainders fund, selling currency forward and then buying it spot fixed overnight? And more to the point, can you explain what this means?" There are all sorts of reasons why crime has fallen and many voters will be alienated by anyone trying to score party political points on this issue. But before the election Tony Blair promised to be "tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime", and the latest crime figures suggest his approach is clearly working. Okay, so he nicked the phrase from Gordon. But you can't blame Labour for that; the Tories were in power when it happened. John O'Farrell's novel, The Best a Man Can Get, is published by Doubleday. comment@theguardian.comUseful links: British crime survey Home Office crime reduction site