Violence against women is the cause of more deaths and disability around the world in 15- to 44-year-olds than cancer, malaria, traffic accidents or war. But, after 35 years of feminist campaigning against crimes such as rape and domestic violence, how much do we as a society know or care about it? While drink-driving and smoking are tackled head-on by the government using a combination of legislation and public education, sexual violence has been largely left to badly resourced women's organisations. While there have been some good examples of government intervention, such as setting up domestic violence courts and the introduction of the new Sex Offences Act, it is nowhere near enough."In the present government, some individual ministers have made great progress with tackling violence against women, but it is essential to have a joined-up strategy across all departments, and currently that is not happening," says the MP Vera Baird, who will chair the launch of the End Violence Against Women campaign next week in parliament.Such a campaign is urgently needed. A survey of more than 1,000 adults published earlier this week found that there is a worrying level of ignorance about rape among the public. Many still blame the victim. Alcohol is the new short skirt - have too much to drink and you are asking for it, almost one-third of respondents believed. Similarly, women were blamed for displaying any type of "flirtatious behaviour"; more than a quarter thought this made a woman partially responsible for being raped. A fifth thought that wearing revealing or "sexy" clothes made women partially responsible.It is not only public attitudes about rape that can lead to high rates of non-reporting and acquittal. A recent review, carried out three years after police were issued with new guidelines for investigating rape, by the Association of Chief Police Officers' working group found that fewer than 10 forces in England and Wales had dedicated rape-investigation teams, and that police continued to provide a "patchy" service when investigating rapes. With just under 6% of reported rapes resulting in a conviction, it is plain to see why police are concerned to improve practice. But what help are they being given by the government?Making the Grade, a report published this week by the new coalition, highlights the government's failure to protect women from violence. All government departments were scored out of 10, based on their knowledge of and response to violence towards women. Many got no marks, and the average score was less than two.It is alarming how little the government is doing in light of what we know about the prevalence of such crimes. Almost half of all adult women in the UK have experienced domestic violence, sexual assault or stalking; at least 50,000 women are raped every year, while the conviction rate is at the lowest level for 30 years; the police in London alone receive an average of two calls a week from women and girls reporting honour crimes such as being forced into marriage.Although research has long been available on the huge cost of clearing up the mess of domestic violence - £23bn a year in England and Wales - we do barely anything to stop it. Women's Aid, Rape Crisis and others providing services for victims of sexual violence have to beg for funding. Surely central government should pay for services that are so desperately needed. If the government can pour resources into stopping people smoking and drink-driving, why not violence against women? It is time to demand radical action. There can be no more excuses. · Julie Bindel is the founder of Justice for Women juliebindel@yahoo.co.uk