  Britain's youngest terrorist, Hammaad Munshi, convicted after a guide to death and explosives was found in his bedroom. Photograph: West Yorkshire police/PAA West Yorkshire schoolboy who possessed a guide to making napalm on his computer and notes on martyrdom under his bed today became Britain's youngest convicted terrorist.Hammaad Munshi, whose grandfather is a leading Islamic scholar, was 16 and taking his GCSEs when he was arrested.Munshi, now 18, was convicted of making a record of information likely to be useful in terrorism following a three-month trial at Blackfriars crown court in London. He was cleared of one possession offence.The judge, Timothy Pontius, remanded Munshi in custody until sentencing at the Old Bailey on September 19 when, Pontius warned, it was "inevitable" that he would be jailed.The Crown Prosecution Service said Munshi, of Greenwood Street, Saville Town, Dewsbury, was the youngest person to be convicted under the Terrorism Act.The teenager was convicted alongside Aabid Khan, 23, who was said to be central in radicalising people. He had recruited the 15-year-old Munshi and Sultan Muhammad, who was described as Khan's "right hand man". Khan, 23, of Otley Road, Undercliffe, Bradford, West Yorkshire, was found guilty of possessing articles connected with terrorism but cleared of one similar count. Muhammad, of Hanover Square, Manningham, West Yorkshire, was convicted of three similar charges and one of making a record of information likely to be useful in terrorism.A fourth defendant, Ahmed Sulieman, 30, from south London, was cleared of three charges of possession after telling the court the files did not belong to him.The court heard that Munshi spent hours surfing jihadist websites and distributing material to others as part of what the prosecution branded a "worldwide conspiracy" to "wipe out" non-Muslims. The material contained detailed instructions about making napalm, other high explosives, detonators and grenades, plus "how to kill" instructions. Khan wanted to fulfil the teenager's wish to go abroad and "fight jihad". During one internet exchange, they discussed how the boy might smuggle a sword through airport security. The pair lived 10 miles apart and kept in touch by telephone and email.Munshi was detained a day after Khan as he returned from his comprehensive school, Westborough High. Munshi - whose online Arabic profile "fidadee" means a "person ready to sacrifice themselves for a particular cause" - ran a website selling hunting knives and Islamic flags and was the cell's computer specialist. Two bags of ballbearings – described as the shrapnel of choice for suicide bombers - were found in one of his pockets On his PC were al-Qaida propaganda videos and recordings promoting "murder and destruction". Notes on martyrdom were found under the bed of the teenager, whose grandfather is Sheikh Yakub Munshi, president of the Islamic Research Institute of Great Britain at the Markazi mosque, Dewsbury."One who is not taking part in the battle nor has the sheer intention to die is in the branch of hypocrisy," they read. Khan, the schoolboy's mentor, was returning from Pakistan - possibly after terror camp training - when he was detained. The "routine stop" at Manchester airport on June 6 2006 yielded police the largest cyber "encyclopaedia" of articles promoting terrorism. It included personal information, including addresses, of members of the Royal family, a guide to killing non-Muslims and handbooks on Mujahideen explosives and poisons.Khan, known as Del Boy to his contacts, ran At-Tibiyan Publications, an "online extremist support network". In one exchange, he spoke of finding a "big target and taking it out... like a military base in the UK. Praise be to Allah". He admitted being interested in jihad at 12, but insisted he was in Pakistan selling mobiles and visiting earthquake victims, claiming the material police found resulted from "hoarding and curiosity". Munshi did not give evidence, but his barrister argued he had collected the material out of "curiosity". Muhammad claimed through his counsel that the computer files belonged to others. But the jury convicted them of eight Terrorism Act offences committed between November 23 2005 and June 20 2006. Operation Praline, headed by Leeds counter terrorism unit (CTU), examined a huge number of files from hard drives and DVDs in Khan's suitcase.Simon Denison, prosecuting, said the material called for "blasting and destroying places of amusement, immorality and sin, embassies, vital economic centres and bridges". It also contained guidelines to "beating and killing hostages", forging identity documents, training, weapons purchasing, undercover operations, planning assassinations and coaching "brothers" to answer questions when travelling to and from Pakistan. "This information amounted to a terrorist encyclopaedia or library," said Denison.Muhammed had a hoard of similar material in his bedroom. The court head that one of the most chilling videos was "a step-by-step guide to making a suicide bomber's vest, using ballbearings as shrapnel and demonstrating the effects". After the case, Detective Chief Superintendent John Parkinson, head of Leeds CTU, described the defendants as "dangerous individuals" who were in possession of material that was useful to anyone wanting to commit an act of terrorism."In many respects, Khan, Muhammad, and Munshi were 'facilitators'. They had the knowledge required to orchestrate terrorist acts and they willingly shared that expertise with others. These are not the actions of curious individuals, or even those who are sympathetic to terrorist objectives. "They are the actions of people who pose a very real threat to our communities," he said.Khan and Muhammad will be sentenced tomorrow.