Violence and racism came as second nature to the boys accused of killing Stephen Lawrence. Even as they entered their teens, the Acourt brothers and their friend David Norris were out of control. Knives and other offensive weapons were essential accessories on the street. "Come on," Neil would say when the gang went out looking for action, "all get chivvied up." His idea of a joke was to terrorise his friends with demonstrations of overarm stabbing. When Norris was a child his father and uncle were already gun-carrying drug smugglers.  Like many of the local people who followed Millwall and tolerated or supported the activities of the National Front and the British National Party, the boys hated black people. Besides football and occasional fishing, they filled their boring lives with television, smoking cannabis, vicious racist banter and hanging about looking for trouble. Jamie and Neil Acourt, 16 and 17 at the time of the murder, fancied themselves as tough boys. The menace, the swagger, and the slicked hair were straight out of East End criminal mythology; they liked to be called the Krays.  All but Norris lived on the adjacent Brook and Progress estates, minutes away from where Stephen was stabbed in Eltham's Well Hall Road. Because of the local authority's 'sons and daughters' tenancy policy, the area has remained almost exclusively white working class with a high rate of youth unemployment. Gary Dobson and Luke Knight lived with their parents; the Acourts shared a shabby semi with two elder brothers, pit bull terriers and an occasionally absent mother. Norris and his mother enjoyed more spacious surroundings a few miles south in a Chislehurst mansion, now in danger of being confiscated by Customs & Excise following his father's conviction for drug importation and possession of guns in 1996. The Acourts and Dobson went to Crown Woods secondary school in Greenwich. At the age of 14, the delinquent Jamie was permanently excluded and moved to Kidbrooke secondary to join his friend Luke Knight. But Jamie lasted only 10 months. Once he was found with a monkey wrench in his bag. Another pupil claims he brought in a replica hand gun, later found by the police at his home. He was finally thrown out after an assault on a black pupil.  Norris also got into trouble at Coopers school, a predominantly white, middle class comprehensive in Chislehurst. He was expelled at the age of 13 in September 1989 for constant defiance and disobediance and sent to a special referral unit. Outside of school, the boys began to get in trouble from about 1990. They were regulars at the Orchard youth club on the Brook estate. Neil Acourt and Norris were expelled after the letters NF for the National Front were painted six feet high on the wall. They were part of a gang which forced one, isolated Asian family to leave after persistent harassment.  As their collection of weaponry increased, the boys began indulging in greater levels of violence with at least three allegations of stabbing. They had plenty of time on their hands after leaving school as only Dobson had full-time work as an apprentice bricklayer. The Acourts did casual work as draymen at an uncle's bottling factory. In June 1992 two brothers, Darren and Terry Witham, complained they had been attacked in Chislehurst High Street by a gang including Norris, Jamie Acourt and Luke Knight. Norris was charged with stabbing Darren and Jamie with having an offensive weapon, in this case a truncheon. Despite police protests, the Crown Prosecution Service discontinued the case just before Stephen's murder. It has now emerged that Darren's father was approached by an intermediary, offering a bribe of £5,000 if Darren withdrew his allegation. Mr Witham refused but it was a pattern that was to repeat itself. A month before Stephen's death, Norris, with Neil Acourt offering encouragement, allegedly stabbed a local white youth, Stacey Benefield. After the attack was brought to the attention of the police by the same informer who first named Stephen's killers, Norris and Neil were charged with attempted murder. Neil was discharged at committal but Norris was sent for trial and acquitted. Evidence before the inquiry revealed that, once again, money was offered to Benefield to drop the case. He took the first £2,000 with the offer of a further £5,000 but refused to change his story. We now know that the man who tried to save Norris' skin was his father, Clifford, who had been on the run since 1988. Even after Stephen's death, the violence continued. In the summer of 1994 Jamie was arrested and charged with a stabbing in a local nightclub. At his trial he pleaded he acted in self-defence and was acquitted. The boys' violent reputation, and the criminal associates in their extended family, meant that few people were prepared publicly to denounce them. But fear alone does not explain why the people of Eltham failed to come forward as witnesses.  While there were more than a dozen tip-offs, some anonymous, the unsavoury truth is that these teenage boys grew up in an area where racism was deeply engrained in the local white community.