There were more than 100 people at the party, yet no one saw it happen. One minute Natasha Derby was dancing alongside a friend, the next she was bleeding to death on the floor, shot in the head at close range. Dwane Haughton, 29, was acquitted earlier this month of 23-year-old Natasha's murder. The Jamaican had pleaded guilty at Reading Crown Court in Berkshire to handling the bullet that killed her - his fingerprint was on a cartridge case found at the scene - but he denied pulling the trigger.The week Haughton was cleared, three other women were shot, two fatally. Sisters Connie and Lorna Morrison were tied up in their flat in Harlesden, north-west London, and shot in the head at point-blank range. Their mother's boyfriend, Noel Patterson, 62, was killed, but Lorna's nine-month-old son was spared.The shootings are part of a brutal trend. An investigation by The Observer has found that black women are almost 50 times more likely than white women to be victims of gun crime. Although women make up less than 2 per cent of gunshot cases, 95 per cent of female victims are black. This includes women deliberately targeted by gunmen as well as bystanders.Experts say they are victims of a black gang culture that no longer sees women or children as beyond limits. Mafia-style tactics which call for every witness to a crime to be executed have been adopted with relish.The cases keep coming. A few days after the Morrison sisters were murdered, three men attacked a black woman drinking in the Red Lion pub in Ilford, east London. As an argument escalated, they began throwing snooker balls at her head. Her friend, Clifford Coby, 26, tried to defend her and was shot in the chest and neck. Mr Coby died instantly. The woman and another male friend were both shot as they fled.Two men go on trial in Nottingham on Wednesday for the murder of 14-year-old schoolgirl Danielle Beccan, shot dead in the early hours of 9 October last year as she returned home with friends from Nottingham's traditional Goose Fair.Graeme McLagan, author of Guns and Gangs, an investigation into gun crime published earlier this year, believes the trend can be traced back to June 1998 when Jamaicans Hyrone Hart, 28, and Kurt Roberts, 19, carried out a five-week spree of brutal robberies. In one incident they burst into the London home of Avril Johnson and bound her and her husband hand and foot.'They shot her in the head right in front of her two daughters,' says McLagan. 'Her husband was slashed across the neck and shot but survived. Four days later the pair murdered another young mother, Michelle Carby.'Since then we have seen numerous cases of black women shot in towns and cities across the country. The attitude now is that if women happen to be on the scene or in the way, it makes no difference. The gunmen have developed a new level of callousness. They no longer seem to care.'That callousness was demonstrated to horrific effect earlier this year when three men were convicted of attempted murder. Michael Nelson, Dwight Charlton and Horace Gordon found a man they wanted to kill in a car outside a takeaway in Clapton, east London. A woman got out of the car and warned them there were two children inside, begging them not to shoot. The three men opened fire anyway, spraying 15 bullets into the vehicle injuring an 18-month-old baby, her father and a friend. Again, all the victims were black.Sentencing the killers, Recorder of London Judge Peter Beaumont said: 'For reasons beyond the comprehension of the court, you chose to open fire in a way which was intended to be a cold-blooded execution of the people who were in the car. The fact that two children survived is no thanks to you.'He recommended that Charlton and Gordon be deported to Jamaica after serving their sentences.Several women - almost always black - have been shot and wounded after emerging from nightclubs and finding themselves in the line of fire during drive-by shootings. In other incidents the targeting is more specific.In September 2003, seven-year-old Toni-Ann Byfield was shot dead by gunmen who also killed her father, Tony, a low-level drug dealer. The child is believed to have been targeted to prevent her identifying the killers.In March 2003, 25-year-old Pauline Peart was shot dead at the wheel of her Audi TT sports car in Tottenham, north London. Peart, a telephone marketing worker, was chatting to a male friend when three men in their early 20s arrived and looked at the car. A man tried to open the driver's door only to find it locked. He poked the barrel of a handgun in through the half-open window and pulled the trigger. Peart, who bent forward to try to protect herself, was hit in the back. She died after a bullet pierced her heart. The three men - all Jamaicans - had planned to steal the car.Two weeks later, Sabina Rizvi, 25, was shot dead as she drove a male companion away from Bexleyheath police station in south London, where the two of them had been questioned about a stolen vehicle.In one of the most notorious cases of recent years, Charlene Ellis, 18, and Letisha Shakespeare, 17, were shot dead as they stood outside a New Year's Eve party in Birmingham in 2003. Charlene's twin sister, Sophia, and her cousin Cheryl Shaw were shot and injured. Police thought they had been caught in crossfire but it has since emerged they were almost certainly deliberately targeted.The party was seen as a gathering place for members of a gang known as the Johnson Crew. Charlene's half-brother, Marcus, was a key figure in a rival gang, the Burger Bar Boys. Marcus was one of four men convicted of the murder earlier this year.For Detective Chief Superintendent John Coles, who heads Operation Trident, a specialist Metropolitan Police unit which targets black-on-black gun crime, a key factor when women or children are shot is the killers' ethnicity.When violent black gun crime first arrived in the UK in the mid-Eighties, most of the perpetrators were from Jamaica. Dubbed Yardies, they became active in the crack cocaine trade and brought a ruthlessness more usual in the Jamaican capital, Kingston, which has one of the highest murder rates per head in the world.'While they used to make up the majority, today only 15 per cent of the cases we deal with involve Jamaicans,' Coles told The Observer. 'The majority of gun crime we deal with is now down to British-born gangs.'There is a subtle difference between the two. The Jamaicans will deliberately target and execute women. With the British-born gangs, it's more the case that the women are in the wrong place at the wrong time.'That said, there is evidence that women are sometimes involved in gun crime. Women will often conceal guns and take them into nightclubs on behalf of men because they know they are far less likely to be searched.'Surveys suggest that at least half of all youth gangs now have female members and that many are becoming more actively involved in crime. At the same time, some women have found themselves targeted by gangs after agreeing to give evidence against friends or boyfriends known to have been involved in gun crime.In January 2001, Sophie Lewis, 22 was shot four times in the head and body on the orders of her former boyfriend, Jamaican gangster Ricky Sweeney, who feared she would give evidence against him at a murder trial. Miraculously she survived and testified against Sweeney, who was sentenced to life. Lewis has since been entered the witness protection scheme and lives in hiding under a new identity.Officers at Operation Trident are now working hard on the Harlesden triple murder, and resources are so stretched that other cases are being put on hold. Postmortem examinations showed that the Morrison sisters and their mother's boyfriend, Noel Patterson, a popular cleaner known as 'Fisherman', all died of gunshots to the head.Officers are examining the backgrounds of the victims and probing suggestions that the family may have been victims of a bungled robbery. Another possibility is that the killers were trying to get information from the family, possibly the location of another individual, and that they were shot because they either did not know or refused to tell.Detectives made a new plea last week for help from anyone who saw youths running to the scene. Although neighbours heard shots, no one called police, prompting fears that local people might be too scared to come forward with information. A man arrested in connection with the killings has been bailed until September.As the hunt goes on, a major fear is that the ruthless gang behind the triple killing may strike again. 'What we have seen in Harlesden seems like a return to the bad old days of the late Nineties,' said Coles. He is hoping this cold-bloodedness is 'just a one-off', and not the start a fresh trend.