The admission of error is never easy - even for someone of a naturally humble disposition. But, having misjudged Tony Blair for years and repeated my misjudgment time after time in this column, honour requires me to confess that I was mistaken about an important aspect of his character. While others accused him of mouthing whatever prejudices reports from focus groups made politically appealing, I argued that he always said what he honestly believed. I was wrong.Last Friday, after a contrived photo opportunity at the Beechwood Family Centre in Watford - regulation mug of tea in hand - he described one of his aspirations for a better Britain. It was a "historic shift from a criminal justice system which asks: 'how do we protect the accused from the transgressions of the state and police?' to one whose first question is 'How do we protect the majority from the dangerous and irresponsible minority?'"Could any grown man - with even a smattering of understanding about the real world - genuinely imagine that the criminal justice system is based on the principle that its primary purpose is the protection of suspected criminals against the law? Does the prime minister really believe that an obligation to hamstring the police was the imperative that motivated MPs as they passed successive bills in the last parliament? Was it the hope that guided David Blunkett when he was home secretary? Is it the principle that judges observe when they administer the law, and the aim of every voluntary justice of the peace who sacrifices valuable leisure time in order to sit on the local bench?The criminal justice system should certainly contain safeguards against the conviction of innocent men and women, and it is possible to argue about whether or not, at present, those safeguards are too weak or too strong. But the suggestion that the protection of "transgressors" is the basis of our present system is balderdash. And the prime minister must know that to be so.It must be admitted that by talking such rubbish Tony Blair acquits himself of the sin of pride. He must know that his erstwhile colleagues at the bar (labouring to defend the accused) and welfare officers (struggling to avoid overcrowded prisons creating recidivists) will, at best, hold him up to ridicule. Many will simply take it for granted that at an event devoted to the idea of respect, he showed no respect for the truth. He recognised that pub talk about "being too soft on crime" was likely to be exploited by the worst sort of Conservative and decided to exploit it himself.Last Friday's nonsense was just another feature of a tactic that I first witnessed 10 years ago but deluded myself into believing was beneath the prime minister's dignity. It is called "outflanking". I first witnessed it at a meeting of the parliamentary party at which I complained that Labour, then in opposition, was about to advocate publication of school league tables. The creation of an official hierarchy of so-called achievement would, in my view, not make the best schools better but guarantee that the bad schools got worse.I expected David Blunkett - shadow education secretary - to insist that competition improves performance. That was the fashion of the time. He only mentioned that idea in passing and ignored completely the shibboleth about parents having the right to a pre-digested comparison of success as measured by examination results. Instead, he simply said - clearly believing it to be the killer argument - that the Tories were doing it, so Labour must do it too.Since then, "outflanking" - as distinct from outdated notions like liberty, equality and fraternity - has become New Labour's watchword. It is the reason why Tony Blair talks dangerous nonsense about "choice" in the public sector. It is why the education authorities who preserve selective secondary schools are allowed to prejudice the futures of thousands of children. It is why the trade unions and local government are dismissed as a relic of old Labour inefficiency.Of course, in one sense, "outflanking" has been a huge success. Labour has occupied the Conservative party's ground and destroyed its prospect of government, certainly for a generation and possibly forever. But that achievement is diminished by some of its consequences.When, 15 years ago, we anticipated a Labour victory under the leadership of John Smith, we believed that when it came about, Britain would be significantly different from the country the Tories would create. One of the improvements we anticipated was a reform of the criminal justice system. Thanks to "outflanking", the changes introduced by David Blunkett made the system more repressive than it was in the days of Michael Howard. If the nonsense Tony Blair chose to propagate last Friday becomes the basis of new policy initiative, it will become more repressive still.comment@theguardian.com