You report that there could be as many wrongly convicted people in prison today as there were a quarter of a century ago (Leaders, 5 May). The sad reality is that there will be many, many more. Over the last 12 years the government has enacted legislation not only to increase vastly the range of criminal activity but to make it far easier to convict defendants. The idea that hearsay evidence would be heard in a courtroom, or that evidence of past convictions and bad character could be introduced by the crown would have seemed unthinkable a quarter of a century ago.Not content with all that, last summer the government sanctioned the use of anonymous witness evidence in criminal trials, despite the fact that Lord Bingham, the senior law lord, had just declared that the use of such evidence would be inimical to English traditions of fairness. Having greatly increased the potential for the miscarriage of justice, the government then abolished its ex gratia scheme and brought in new legislation to restrict the amount of compensation that those wrongly imprisoned can receive. Justice in England and Wales has never been more unfair than it is at present. The creation of the Criminal Cases Review Commission was nothing to do with New Labour. It began work on 1 April 1997, under the Major government.Bob WoffindenLondonThe Guardian should be congratulated for its Justice on Trial feature at a time when concern about miscarriages of justice no longer seems to be fashionable. There is a perception that miscarriages of justice are more or less a thing of the past and that the Criminal Cases Review Commission can be entrusted to deal with the few remaining cases. In fact, the CCRC is busier than ever, handling approximately 1,000 applications a year. It may be true that since the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984, there are few challenges to convictions based on disputed interviews, but problems continue. Now the concerns raised relate to non-disclosure, flawed expert evidence and, unfortunately and increasingly, to inadequate representation. Things will only get worse. Experienced lawyers are ceasing to do legal aid work. Our lord chancellor/minister for justice tells us that more work should be done by non-qualified lawyers; and we live in a climate reminiscent of the 1970s, when to be Irish was to be suspect, and where there is now tremendous pressure on the police and courts to get results and thereby "protect us".The hurdles facing a wrongly convicted prisoner remain as formidable as ever; a prison system designed to break the spirit, a shortage of lawyers willing and able to take on the case and a CCRC increasingly underfunded. Some will also say that the real problems start with the chronic lack of support when a conviction is actually quashed.Campbell MaloneCriminal Appeal Lawyers AssociationGerry Conlon's view (Comment, 5 May 2009) that miscarriages of justice are currently taking place is absolutely true. Miscarriages of justice occur for many reasons, but one of the most important is the fact that the majority of the competent criminal law practitioners have been forced out of practice by the new legal aid fees, which makes practising this constitutionally fundamental area of law unprofitable. The only way the government can deal with this serious issue is to address the huge funding gap for publicly funded legal work. Liban ObsiyeBristolLord Denning's opinion that "It is better that some innocent men remain in jail than the integrity of the English legal system be impugned" seemingly remains as a guiding principle for those who run British courts. Let us hope that the efforts to identify victims of our legal system succeeds in freeing some of the most victimised, and that it is not overlooked that these serious acts of evil against the innocent are replicated on a lesser scale on a daily basis. There are many thousands of wrongly convicted people in British jails and all of our innocent children and neighbours live under the daily threat of joining them.Saul GreshamSkewen, West Glamorgan