Sentences for robbery, particularly street crime, are too severe and more offenders should be given community punishments, the official body that advises judges on sentencing suggested yesterday.The sentencing advisory panel said current thinking on robbery sentences, laid down in cases in the 70s and 80s, were out of date and called for a radical rethink. The appeal court is obliged to take account of advice from the independent panel, set up to promote consistency in sentencing throughout England and Wales. The court does not need to follow its recommendations in every respect, although so far it has diverged only on minor details. The panel has not yet reached a final view, but is asking for opinions in a wide-ranging consultation exercise. It will produce its final recommendations later this year. This will trigger the setting of a new set of guidelines by the appeal court, forcing Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, to reconsider his judgment last year in a case relating to mobile phone theft, when he said custody should be the norm for all street robbers who use violence. Tough sentencing of muggers because of the "perception that they pose a threat to society" in crime-hit areas was "questionable", the panel added. The panel said robbery - defined as theft with force or the threat of force - covered a wide range of circumstances. The violence could be as little as tugging on a handbag strap. Yet the crime closest to robbery in sentencing patterns was grievous bodily harm with intent, which always involved serious violence. Apart from robberies in the home, the current starting points for judges "would be likely to appear too high", the panel said. It suggested new guidelines for all types of robbery, ranging from street muggings to organised heists. The panel proposed four levels of sentencing and noted that the new system would be "likely to result in lower sentences than those currently approved by the court of appeal". Its chairman, Professor Martin Wasik, said: "We propose that the degree of violence used or threatened should be the primary factor in sentencing robbery, taking full account of injury to the victim and the nature and duration of threats made. "Ordinarily, the value of the property stolen will be given relatively less weight than the violence or intimidation." The panel said in its consultation document that it "would welcome views on whether intensive community sentences should be used wherever possible for street robbery. "Where a robbery involves little or no physical injury to the victim, it is hard to see the additional harm involved in robbery that justifies sentencing levels comparable with those for grievous bodily harm with intent." Currently, 89% of offenders sentenced for all types of robbery go to jail. The proposed four levels are: 路 Using intimidation or threats of violence with no weapon and/or using minimal force. Starting point for under-18s: community sentence; for adults: community sentence or up to two years. 路 Using a weapon to threaten and/or using significant force amounting to unlawful wounding. Starting point for under-18s: detention and training order up to two years or up to four years' detention in serious cases; for adults: two to four years. 路 Causing or threatening serious harm amounting to wounding or grievous bodily harm with intent. Starting point for under-18s: four to eight years; for adults: six to 10 years. 路 Causing serious injury to the victim and targeting of large sums of money or valuables by professionally organised gangs. Starting point for under-18s: more than eight years; for adults: more than 10 years.