The Soham murder trial today heard how school caretaker Ian Huntley burst into tears and told a police officer: "You think I've done it."Mr Huntley's alleged outburst took place when Detective Constable Jonathan Taylor spoke to him three days after Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman had gone missing.The officer told the jury: "He said, 'You think I have done it. I was the last person to see them or to speak to them'. Then he started to cry. "I told him not to persecute himself, to pull himself together. I told him other people had seen the girls in that area and in the high street. That seemed to cheer him up a bit."DC Taylor had gone to Mr Huntley's home in College Close, Soham, Cambridgeshire, to get him to sign a consent form for a search that had been carried out there two days earlier.He and a colleague, DC Andrea Warren, searched the house on August 5 last year after it emerged that Mr Huntley could have been one of the last people to see the girls. Holly and Jessica, both aged 10, went missing on Sunday August 4.Earlier, DC Warren told the court that she had taken a statement from Mr Huntley during that first visit. She told the court: "He asked me why I had to take a statement, and was he a suspect."The officer explained to Mr Huntley that he was not a suspect, telling him that police had to speak to people who might have seen the missing girls. She said that Mr Huntley asked her: "Will you be taking a statement from everybody then, and are they all suspects?" She said that, when she arrived, Mr Huntley had looked "quite pale, clammy". As he was giving his statement, he was "a little bit agitated, as though his hands had got clammy, and he brushed them down the side of the chair arm". He agreed to allow his home to be searched, and was mostly "very calm and very relaxed", but became "agitated" as the search went into a bathroom and a cupboard under the stairs. In his witness statement, which was read to the court, Mr Huntley said that his alsatian dog, Sadie, had got out of the house, perhaps because she was on heat, and had come back dirty. He said that he washed the dog in the bath before going outside to dry it with a towel. The girls approached him and asked after Maxine Carr, Mr Huntley's then girlfriend, who was their classroom assistant. He told them she had not got a permanent job at their school. They said they were sorry, and asked him to pass on the message before setting off towards College Road. Mr Huntley described the girls as wearing Manchester United football shirts with Beckham on the back. He said he later became aware of the search and was asked whether he had seen two girls, but did not realise they were the same girls he had seen. Mr Huntley said he only realised the connection when he heard that the girls were wearing Manchester United shirts. Also today, the court heard how Ms Carr was seen scrubbing clean the kitchen at Mr Huntley's home on the day after Holly and Jessica went missing.Michael Gee, the school's assistant site manager, said that, when he was invited into the house for a drink after helping to search for the girls, Ms Carr "was scrubbing the kitchen tiles, the wall tiles ... She was complaining that the tile paint was coming off as she was scrubbing too hard". Ms Carr was using a scouring pad, and there was a Dyson vacuum cleaner by the kitchen door. As Mr Gee and Mr Huntley were leaving, Ms Carr was preparing to wash the kitchen floor. She had put the dog out so that she could do so, Mr Gee said. Mr Huntley, 29, denies murdering the Holly and Jessica but has admitted conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr, 26, a former classroom assistant at the girls' primary school, denies conspiring to pervert the course of justice and two charges of assisting an offender. The prosecution alleges that she gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for Sunday August 4 last year, the day the girls went missing. Their bodies were found in a remote ditch near Lakenheath, Suffolk, 13 days later.The trial continues.