A senior banking executive died of head injuries after he intervened in a street brawl.Police said Frank McGarahan, 45, who was the chief operating officer of Barclays Wealth, sustained a "fatal injury" early on Sunday morning after witnessing an assault in Norwich. Witnesses said the father-of-two intervened when a group of youths assaulted a young couple.He was waiting with his one of his younger brothers and another relative when the incident occurred.A member of Mr McGarahan's family told the Daily Mail: "They were at the back of the queue waiting quietly to go back to their hotel when they saw an assault taking place on a young man and his girlfriend by a mob of nine or 10 blokes in their early 20s."Some other people in the queue were telling these guys to stop and Frank and one of his relatives did the same. Out of the blue, both got attacked. Frank suffered serious head injuries. Frank was a fair-minded person. He wouldn't see anyone treated unfairly. He just believed in a quiet life. He was just being a good citizen."Norfolk police said: "Mr McGarahan was spending a quiet evening out with family and friends ahead of a family christening in Norwich on Sunday when he witnessed an assault while queuing for a taxi on Guildhall Hill, after which he sustained a fatal injury." Mr McGarahan, the head of Barclays' bespoke finance arm died yesterday in Addenbrooke's hospital, Cambridge.A post mortem examination is due to take place today.Mr McGarahan, from Hertfordshire, graduated in law from Southampton University in 1985, and worked at Deutsche Bank before moving to Barclays Captial as head of compliance.A Barclays spokesman said: "As it is a matter for police investigation, I am sure you will appreciate that we cannot say very much. We can confirm that he was the deceased and our thoughts are with his wife and family. They have asked for privacy at this time."A family spokesman paid tribute to a "fantastic family man" and called on any witnesses to contact police.Police are treating the incident as a murder and are reviewing CCTV footage of the city centre to attempt to identify a gang of young men seen running from the area."We are very keen to hear from anyone who may have seen something or has any information," said Detective Superintendent Chris Hobley of Norfolk police. Police are following up a number of lines of inquiry as part of the investigation.