A sex attacker who was struck off the nursing register 14 years ago was today found guilty of rape and sexual assaults on patients in London.Naraindrakoomar Sahodree, 59, of Tottenham, north London, had been convicted in 1997 of indecently assaulting an 18-year-old woman within three days of her starting work at a nursing home he owned and ran in Liverpool.He lied about his convictions to get jobs between 2003 and 2008. He admitted four counts of obtaining a pecuniary advantage – his salary – by deception.The rape victim, who has multiple sclerosis, gave evidence from behind a screen. She told the court that when she was in at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Sahodree had moved her alarm buzzer out of her reach so she could not summon help when he raped her during the night shift on 31 October 2008.A diary she kept in hospital had the page on which she wrote about the rape ripped out.The second patient gave evidence that Sahodree had sexaully assaulted her three times. He tried to kiss her and had touched her inner thigh in an inappropriate way in January 2007.She said that she found Sahodree "quite pervy" and that his behaviour made her scared.The woman, who suffers from a condition which causes painful spasms in her legs, said she buzzed for help and Sahodree came into her curtained-off bedroom area and stretched her leg to ease the discomfort but then touched her inner thigh, over the fabric of her pyjama bottoms. "I know he did feel me up my thigh and I didn't like it," she said in a videotaped police interview."I did move away and try to get him off me and said: 'I don't want this to happen.'" Sahodree worried her because he got too close, she said. "He used to try to kiss me. I do remember trying to pull away because I didn't like it at all."The woman, who watched her taped interview from behind a screen, said Sahodree also gave her whisky on one occasion. "He said it was like a treat and to calm me and get me relaxed. I remember telling him that I didn't want it."Sahodree was originally struck off the nursing register when he was jailed for 21 months after being found guilty at Liverpool crown court in April 1996 of 13 counts of obtaining property by deception.The following January, while he was on bail for the earlier offences, he was jailed for two months on five counts of indecent assault on an 18-year-old woman who worked at his nursing home.Sahodree was remanded in custody, before sentencing next month. Judge David Martineau said: "There's a strong likelihood that I shall find he poses a significant risk of serious harm to the public. [He] faces a substantial, if not very substantial, sentence and it may very well be an indeterminate sentence."