A teacher with severe post-natal depression smothered her 10-day-old son after her medication was taken away, it emerged today.Experts have launched a serious case review to try to establish why Katy Norris's anti-depressant drugs were withdrawn before she killed her son, Leo.Norris, 31, used a cushion to smother the child and then put his body into a cupboard. She told police that following the killing she felt "normal" again. A judge at Exeter crown court imposed a hospital order on Norris, of Brixham, south Devon, after she admitted infanticide.Defending Norris, Adam Vaitilingam QC told the court it was hoped that important lessons would be learned from the case. He said: "Katy Norris was diagnosed as suffering from severe post-natal depression some days prior to this. Her previous medication was withdrawn and no further medication was prescribed."One can understand serious questions are being asked by those close to her as to why more was not done. They hope very much that lessons are learned and a such a tragedy will not be repeated elsewhere."The court heard that Norris had suffered from depression from an early age but had a good education and graduated from Bath University. Sarah Munro QC, prosecuting, said: "Since her mid-teens she has been suffering from varying degrees of depression."She married, became pregnant and Leo was born on 10 April this year. Munro continued: "During her pregnancy she continued to exhibit symptoms of depression and was prescribed anti-depression medication. Following Leo's birth she was initially happy at his arrival. But within a very few days she deteriorated considerably."Relatives tried to help but on 20 April, Munro said, Norris went into the bedroom where Leo was asleep and smothered him with a cushion. She put his lifeless body in a cupboard and told a family member what she had done. She later explained to police that following the killing she "felt normal again".Norris was originally charged with murdering her baby son but that charge was substituted for infanticide. The full charge was that she smothered a child under 12 months of age with a cushion while the balance of her mind was disturbed.She did not appear in court in person but admitted infanticide via a video link from a psychiatric unit in Milton Keynes where she has been receiving treatment since April. During the 10 minute hearing, Norris could be seen on the video link in tears. The judge, Mr Justice Jack, told her the hearing would not take very long to which she replied: "Thank you".Jack said: "I am satisfied by the evidence I have read in reports that Mrs Norris is suffering from a mental disorder. I am satisfied that treatment is available and remains available in Milton Keynes where she is at present." The judge made a Section 37 hospital order under the Mental Health Act.A Torbay Care Trust spokesman said: "We cannot discuss the details of an individual's care. We can confirm that a serious case review (SCR) into this incident has been convened. This is standard practice in the event of a death or serious injury where an individual has been in receipt of healthcare services."An SCR panel consists of clinicians, care professionals and NHS managers and it is the panel's role to determine the appropriateness of care, support and treatment provided prior to an event and to identify any learning."