The proposed introduction of a new criminal offence of coercive control within intimate partner relationships would not just be almost impossible to implement, it would also send out several wrong messages. It is legislation piled on already existing laws that are rarely implemented; it would be misunderstood by those tasked with protecting women; and would likely be misused by vindictive men claiming that being “nagged” or prevented from seeing their children constituted the crime.I was a speaker at a conference on domestic violence in 1997 along with detective sergeant Clive Driscoll, an individual who had driven forward the introduction of an innovative and robust piece of legislation named the Protection from Harassment Act (PHA). It was intended to protect the victims of harassment, such as stalking behaviour, racial harassment, or antisocial behaviour by neighbours, and “any form of persistent conduct which causes another person alarm or distress”.In the audience were a number of women who had endured domestic violence and abuse, had left the abusive man, and had continued to be stalked and harassed by the perpetrator. There were representatives from domestic violence refuges, probation and other criminal justice agencies; and a number of survivors of male violence. All agreed this was a piece of legislation that would prove crucial in the training and education of police and courts in recognising the dynamics and risk factors in domestic violence – in particular in recognising when the victim was at serious risk of being killed.Had PHA been properly used in domestic abuse cases, there would be no need to introduce more legislation. But the PHA has rarely been implemented and, according to a number of experts in the field, police training and understanding of this law is negligible.Vera Baird, police and crime commissioner for Northumbria and former solicitor general, is concerned that introducing the offence of coercive control may encourage some police officers to wait for the pattern to emerge before making an arrest, rather than act on every incident: “Some domestic violence does not necessarily involve coercive control and victims still need protection.”We need to educate women about how they can seek redress by using existing laws instead of introducing yet another to consider.Kate Bailey wrote movingly here recently about her own experiences of being abused and controlled, and said: “An idea prevails that domestic violence victims must be stupid to stay in relationships. But abuse happens gradually. In my case, it wasn’t about getting beaten every now and again. Abuse takes numerous forms.” Bailey is absolutely right. But is legislation really the answer? Davina James-Hanman has worked on issues of male violence towards women and girls for three decades, and too has reservations about introducing a new criminal offence of coercive control. “This is a Home Office ploy to grab the headlines, make it appear as though they are doing something about domestic violence, and then move on to the next issue.”What victims of abuse really need is for police and others in the criminal justice system to be properly trained in current laws and how to best implement them, and for those tasked with protection and prosecution to be held accountable when they fail to do their jobs to an acceptable standard.Many women experiencing this type of abuse will not know what coercive control actually means in law. Not because they are stupid, but for the simple reason that most behaviours defined as such are so commonplace in unequal heterosexual relationships that women have been told to put up with it, and that they are usually to blame.This law would be used by those men who would categorise what they describe as “nagging” as coercive control.In reality, it would be almost impossible to prove coercive control in a court of law, which means that only the most extreme cases will be acted upon. Most women who report it therefore will be left with the already widely held belief that those who report domestic violence are exaggerating or unhinged. Rather than tying us up with even more unworkable legislation, let us push even harder for the current laws to be used to arrest, charge and convict those men who are currently getting away with violating those they claim to love.