The former pop star Kerry Katona was held at knifepoint early today with her five-month-old daughter by three men in balaclavas who burst into her home and stole a BMW car, as well as her engagement and wedding rings.Katona, 26, and her daughter Heidi were held in a room while the burglars made her husband, Mark Croft, 36, lead them to valuables around the house in Wilmslow, Cheshire. The robbers burst in just before midnight armed with a sledgehammer, crowbar and kitchen knife, Cheshire police said."The husband was then returned to his wife and baby, and the family were secured in a downstairs room, while the offenders stole property and made their escape," said a police spokesman. "A pool table had been pushed against the door to prevent them escaping."The family broke out of the room and raised the alarm around 12.30am. Police said they had not been harmed "but were left shaken."About £150,000 worth of property was taken including a blue BMW M5, two laptop computers, video game consoles, two televisions including a 42-inch plasma screen, jewellery and watches.Her two daughters with former Westlife star Brian McFadden - Molly, five, and Lilly-Sue, four - were staying with McFadden's parents at the time.Max Clifford, Katona's spokesman, said she had phoned him this morning. The robbers had threatened to kill them, he said. "She was sobbing uncontrollably and is absolutely distraught," Mr Clifford said."You can understand why. She had been held up at knifepoint by men who made it clear when they took Mark off what would happen if they didn't get what they wanted."They ransacked the place. They took jewellery and valuables, her engagement ring and wedding ring, television sets. Obviously, because she is rich and famous she will be a target."She is a highly emotional thing who has had a lot of problems in her life and for this to happen when she was doing so well ... she has got a new house, a new husband and a baby and is getting back to her old self. It was such a horrible thing to happen."The couple moved into the £1.3m house in February this year. It was previously owned by Manchester United star Louis Saha.Katona rose to stardom with girl group Atomic Kitten but left six years ago after falling pregnant. She married McFadden in 2002 but they split up acrimoniously after he met another woman. In February 2004 she was voted the winner of the reality television programme I'm A Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here.A neighbour, Anne Pater, 55, said she was frightened after hearing what had happened. Ms Pater, who has lived in the area for 14 months, said it was a target for crime."We had our car stolen from outside the front of our house a year ago and we didn't hear a thing, and we've had the slabs stolen from the garden wall," she said."I think this area's a target because it's wealthy, the type of cars we have outside attract criminals, perhaps."Police came to my door at 2am to tell us there had been an armed burglary at Kerry's house and to ask us if we'd heard anything. I'm a bit frightened and scared now - we'll be a bit nervous tonight."Mrs Pater sent her best wishes to Katona and her family. "There's never been a dull moment since Kerry moved in," she said.Katona left Atomic Kitten as the group registered its first No 1, Whole Again. Revelations of drug abuse soon followed her separation from McFadden.She went into rehabilitation before bouncing back to become the face of the supermarket chain Iceland and writing for celebrity magazine OK!. Her new husband, Mr Croft, is a taxi driver.