The smell of burning plastic clings to your clothes and catches the back of your throat, leaving an acrid taste that lingers. It encapsulates the pointless destruction of last week's looting and damage at a small shopping precinct in Salford.At Salford Shopping City in Pendleton, a newsagent was looted then torched. Shelves were emptied of cigarettes and the shop's plastic fittings set alight. Broken glass and lollipops litter the floor, along with charred newspapers.The metal shutters at the newsagent's are down and there is no electricity, which adds to the gloom.Faisal Patel, the shop owner's brother, says everything they have worked for has gone. "It is like my own house has burned down," he says. "My livelihood has gone up in smoke." It will be two to three months before the shop can be refitted and reopened, during which time the family will not be earning."We've never had trouble before this happens," he says. His brother says he hopes the same thing will happen to those who damaged his shop.Ian Hopkins, the assistant chief constable of Greater Manchester police, has vowed to do everything he can to bring the perpetrators to justice.The trouble began at Cash Converters, now boarded up and padlocked after it was looted. It soon spread to neighbouring shops. A pound shop has a defiant handwritten sign on the boarded-up windows: "We are open."Cash Converters staff have decamped to a temporary patio table and chair outside a card shop, where they conduct their business in a more public setting close to a stall selling fresh flowers.Smashed windows scar the Bonmarché clothes shop and a nearby Games Station. Several windows have gone at the post office. Bargain Booze has been emptied.The Tesco Express has a competition to win a £100 trolley dash, which seems ill-thought-out considering last week's looting.In Superdrug, a young mum was angry that some of the shops had closed after the riots. "People wanted to go and buy baby food but they couldn't as all the shops were closed," she said.A week after the riots, Hopkins, chief superintendent Kevin Mulligan and councillor Peter Connor are reassuring small business owners and residents.Connor said: "Ever since the riots hit Salford, we've had our business support team out working with local traders to get them back on their feet. In Salford, many of our shops affected are small, independent businesses who don't have the support that comes from being part of a national chain. We want to make sure local people get back to the precinct, spending their money and supporting local shops."Within five minutes of the police's Shop a Looter van arriving outside the centre, a father had reported his son to the Pendleton police station opposite after recognising his mugshot.Hopkins said the campaign has already helped make 256 arrests and bring 166 charges in connection with the riots. "However, we continue to rely on the support from the public," he said.He said he had a message for those involved in the disorder: why wait for the inevitable knock on the door?A 91-year-old said she hoped the government would bring back national service. A middle-aged woman was vociferous in her anger at parents not giving their children "a good crack"."They don't know what a good crack is!" she said as she led her grandchildren away.A team of 41 army cadets appeared and began painting the boarded-up windows at TJ Hughes white. Passersby smiled at them. Salford is largely resilient and fiercely proud.