Policeman in police car sees me in my car. I see policeman seeing me in my car. Policeman sees me seeing him seeing me in car. He tails me. We play mirror tennis. He flashes his blue light. Predictably. He stops me roadside. I should in no way show nervousness or irritation. Nervousness = suspicion. Irritation = suspicion.I've been stopped by the police more than 50 times between the ages of 20 and 40. An average of once every 134 days for 20 years. It is traumatic. "Is there anything wrong, officer?" Policeman reads my question as sarcasm or arrogance. He doesn't answer. Policeman asks questions, not the suspect.It dawns that he may be wasting his own time, I've complied him into submission. He's gathering no evidence for a crime that hasn't been committed. It's like a magic trick where I hide something that wasn't there. The perfect crime.Now I'm in dangerous territory, stopped by an officer of the law whose raison d'etre is to find a law being broken. What was that on Radio 4 I heard today? "If you've nothing to hide, you've nothing to fear." Really? White police officers don't experience this state threat. Nothing to fear? The reason he stopped me is hidden inside his childhood. All he has to do now is prove me wrong. But it's too late for that. It's the part missed in his equality training. Now you see it, now you don't. Ta daaaa. There's no rabbit in the hat.For most people in England, and by "most people" I probably mean white people, driving your first car is an exciting rite of passage into adulthood. A black man in England soon learns that his rite of passage comes with overtly racist conditioning (there is nothing covert about being stopped regularly by the police). The black man must fall in line with the way things are. Ditto for catching taxis, by the way, and ditto for going out in clubs in Manchester. For the police not to know this, for them still to question the validity of the consistently overwhelming evidence, is a double insult. Do some black people cause crime? Yes. Must black men in England be so radically mistaken for someone else? No. Get the criminals, you dunces. And leave me the f*** alone. Do you want more examples? Ask Linford Christie. Ask any black male sportsman. It's worse for them. The policeman recognises them but can't place where from. He makes the assumption that they must be suspect."Oi, oi! What's your registration number?" were the words of a policeman leaning out of his van one summer's evening by the traffic lights on the Edgware road in north London. I relayed my registration number. "It's your lucky day!" he sneered and they sped off. At the beginning of this year I had my computer stolen. Question: did I go to the police station to report it? Two weeks ago I was attacked in Cutty Sark train station. I deliberately didn't blog about it but that's another matter. Question: did I report it to the police? If the police want their crime prevention figures to get better, stop stopping innocent black men because then we'll report the crimes we do see. Crimes that happen to us.A version of this article appeared on Lemn Sissay's blog