Inmates have built barricades, wrecked cells and lit fires in disturbances at three overcrowded prisons in the past seven days, the Home Office confirmed last night.The disturbances at prisons in Doncaster, Dorset and Nottinghamshire come as the prison service initiated a search for a second prison ship and suitable former Ministry of Defence sites that could help avert the growing prison overcrowding crisis. The prison service is also making preparations for the possible widespread use of police cells to hold inmates. As Tony Blair has talked tough on street crime the prison population has surged by 700 in the last two weeks to a record 70,894 - 7,000 higher than the official capacity of prisons in England and Wales. Prison governors warned the home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday that they could not keep taking more and more inmates and keep the lid on Britain's prisons. "The consequences of overcrowding are well-known. We have been briefing ministers since last year about our difficulties in delivering decent prisons with a good level of control but we simply cannot continue to receive the numbers of prisoners being sent to us." The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, admitted yesterday that they were having to "hang on" until extra Treasury resources arrived: "The growth in the prison population is extremely disturbing and I am in discussions with the home secretary about how best we cope." The first disturbance broke out at Guys Marsh young offenders' institution at Shaftesbury, Dorset, last Thursday evening. One prison officer was injured and six cells damaged after about 30 inmates went on the rampage in an incident that lasted until 3.45 on Friday morning. The second happened at Lindholme prison, near Doncaster, South Yorkshire. About 25 prisoners in H-wing refused to return to the cells on Monday night and barricaded themselves into an area of the wing. The incident went on until 4am on Tuesday morning when the inmates finally surrendered. The third incident involved 48 inmates at Ranby prison at Retford, Nottinghamshire, on Tuesday night and started in a residential unit at 10.15 at night. The prisoners lit small fires, turned on the taps and caused extensive water damage and are believed to have temporarily put 50 cells out of use. They surrendered at 3am on Tuesday morning after riot squads and dogs arrived at the prison. Nobody was injured and a prison service investigation is under way. Some of those involved have now been transferred to other prisons. Mr Blunkett has already brought in a package of emergency measures to try to deal with the overcrowding crisis. Changes to the home detention curfew scheme were introduced last week which will eventually cut the daily prison population by 1,900. Ministers are considering a further extension of that scheme. A prison service instruction to governors on the use of police cells is awaiting ministerial authorisation. The prison service is also searching for a new prison ship, similar to the HMP Weare which is moored in Portland Harbour. A second ship, which would not arrive in time to resolve the immediate crisis, is most likely to be moored at Barrow-in-Furness to help the situation in the north-west where the pressure is most acute.