Police have foiled an audacious attempt to steal £220m from the London offices of a Japanese banking group, it emerged today. A high-technology crime ring planned to hack into Sumitomo's computer systems and transfer money electronically to 10 bank accounts around the world. It would have been Britain's biggest ever theft, dwarfing the £26m robbery from Belfast's Northern Bank in December, it was reported.The thieves planned to use a method called keylogging - software which records buttons pressed on computer keyboards - to glean user names and passwords. The programme had already been installed, but police have not confirmed whether this was done by an inside accomplice, or by a break-into the City bank, or whether they managed to do it from outside via the internet.Police in Israel yesterday arrested a man whose business account had been the intended recipient of some of the money, the Financial Times reported. He has been charged with money laundering and deception after the thieves tried to transfer 20m euros (£13.9m) to the account.Takashi Morita, head of communications at Sumitomo in Tokyo, said that the company had not suffered any financial loss as a consequence of the robbery attempt. "The case is still in the middle of investigation so we cannot comment further," he said. "We have undertaken various measures in terms of security and we have not suffered any financial damage." According to the Financial Times, officers from the National High-Tech Crime Unit have been investigating the attempted theft since October, after the gang gained access to Sumitomo's computer systems and tried to transfer the money. The plan was uncovered before any money was transferred. Police have not said how they uncovered the attempted theft or how many people are believed to be involved in the gang.The attempted theft highlights the growing threat to commercial operations posed by sophisticated organised gangs. "The rise of keyloggers poses a real threat to companies and this may be the first time we have evidence of organised criminals using the equipment to attack a bank," Alan MacDonagh, managing director of the fraud consultancy Hibis Europe told the Financial Times.Bank security procedures involve the regular sweeping of computers for bugs or rogue software.It was reported that rumours of the attempted theft have been circulating in police and corporate circles since late last year, after the police warned financial institutions.The National High-Tech Crime Unit refused to make any comment today. It is understood to be reluctant to say anything about what is a major continuing investigation. 