A woman with a history of mental health problems has been jailed for life after being found guilty of murdering a 13-year-old girl in a park in a random and motiveless attack.Hannah Bonser, 26, stabbed Casey Kearney in an unprovoked attack in Elmfield Park, Doncaster, South Yorkshire, in February this year. She was sentenced to a minimum jail term of 22 years on Wednesday afternoon.Despite her mental health problems, a jury at Sheffield crown court rejected Bonser's claim that she was guilty only of manslaughter due to diminished responsibility.Casey was a happy, ordinary 13-year-old girl who was simply "in the wrong place at the wrong time", the court heard. She was a complete stranger to Bonser and they probably did not even exchange any words when they encountered each other in the park.Casey had been heading for a sleepover at her friend Lucia Franco's house when she missed her bus stop and got off the number 55 bus near the park.As one lawyer said in court: "She really, really was in the wrong place at the wrong time." The jury in the trial heard Lucia describe how her friend's constant stream of BlackBerry Messenger (BBM) messages stopped suddenly on her way to her house.She lived with her family in the village of Rossington, just outside Doncaster. Her mother, Kerry Day, said she enjoyed listening to music on her mobile phone and was constantly messaging her many friends using BBM, Facebook and emails to keep in touch.After her death, her mother and father, Anthony Kearney – who are separated – described her as "the most beautiful, intelligent and bright young girl with her whole life ahead of her".Hundreds of people attended Casey's funeral in March, many wearing orange – one of her favourite colours.As the verdict was announced, some of her friends and family in the public gallery were wearing orange as a tribute.A multi-agency investigation into Bonser's contact with a range of services is under way but no date has been announced for its publication.She has been known to the mental health services in her home town of Doncaster for the last decade and she first came to the attention of social services when she was nine, when her morbidly obese mother died.She has been sectioned at least three times, Sheffield crown court heard. Bonser grew up with her brother, Ben, in a Mormon family, and was home educated. Her life changed at the age of nine when her mother, Roberta, died. Her father, Ronald, did not look after the children properly and social services became involved.Psychiatrists told the court that Bonser moved between foster homes from the age of 12. At first this was with her brother but they were later separated. When Bonser was 15, her father died.The court was told that, when Bonser was in year nine, aged about 14, a school report suggested she was a good pupil, working hard and had no attitude problems. But a year later she left without taking any GCSEs.Her brother has said previously that his sister was traumatised by the death of their mother, who had been "the light of our lives". He said simply: "After she had gone, we fell apart."Bonser's first contact with psychiatric services was in February 2002, when she reported low mood and self-harm to community nurses. On her 17th birthday, she went to Doncaster Royal Infirmary's accident and emergency department complaining of hearing voices.She was diagnosed with an emotionally unstable personality disorder and for the next six years she had contact with mental health professionals in the community and when she turned up at hospital. Between 2008 and late 2011, the contact stopped.Then, late last year, things deteriorated. Her friend Hayley Spouse described how Bonser developed an interest in druids, started talking to rocks and believed birds were people out to get her. She blamed some of the strange behaviour on Bonser's heavy use of cannabis.In September 2011, Bonser turned up at a spiritualist bookshop in London and so worried its owner with her bizarre behaviour that social services were called. She was sectioned at a hospital in London. She was taken back to a psychiatric hospital in Doncaster where she was detained but released after five days following a personality disorder diagnosis.When she returned to her flat she constantly complained about demons and sought to be rehoused. In January, she tried to get re-admitted to hospital, but was housed by the charity Rethink for a week. She told a doctor that she was "a complete psychopath".In another assessment she was asked about previous charges or arrests. Bonser said she "was given a warning for carrying a kitchen knife around the street when feeling scared". Three days before the attack on Casey, she told Spouse she was going to stab her ex-boyfriend to death and was "going to get anyone else who crossed her".On the day before the attack she went to ask about her accommodation and was issued with a personal alarm. During Bonser's trial, the prosecution and the defence called experts who gave very different versions of her mental state. The defence case was that she was a paranoid schizophrenic.The consultant forensic psychiatrist Alexander Shubsachs talked the jury through dozens of pages of delusional ramblings Bonser had written. These were found by police in her flat and also written by her in prison after her arrest.But prosecutors said no other expert had diagnosed her as schizophrenic. They said she had consistently been diagnosed as having a personality disorder and suggested she might have made up some of the symptoms of psychosis.The prosecution said it might never be known why Bonser stabbed Casey but asked jurors to consider whether her repeated efforts to be rehoused and her numerous attempts at getting admitted to hospital might be clues.