The gap between the fear of crime and the reality of crime is often a large one. Britain, which has some of the toughest gun laws in the world, is not a country beset by universal violence or disorder, or even, in most parts of the country, by rising levels of criminality. Homicide rates now are equivalent to homicide rates a decade ago. Most of the murders that do take place do not involve strangers, or guns. In 2006-07 only 3% of serious violent offences involved firearms. That is still a terrible toll - guns were used in 413 offences that caused serious injury, including 58 homicides - but not one out of all control. Targeted police work in inner-city areas where guns are most freely-available and frequently-used - Liverpool, Manchester and London, has met with some success.Against this background, however, there stands a dispiriting and dangerous shift in parts of inner-city gang culture. Guns, and the killings that accompany them, are becoming part of the life of some young people. The awful death this week of Rhys Jones, an 11-year-old boy shot in a Liverpool pub car park while he played football with friends, was the eighth such murder this year. Six have occurred in London, including the fatal shooting of a 16-year-old in February at an ice rink packed with 300 people.Such incidents are thankfully not the norm, but nor can it be said that they are entirely exceptional. Anyone who watches videos posted on YouTube by teenagers in Croxteth, Liverpool, where this week's murder took place, will see that guns have become an adolescent fashion accessory. The film shows young people holding sawn-off shot guns and handguns: a horrible visual endorsement of recent research from the University of Portsmouth, which suggested that some small parts of Britain are developing a culture where teenagers feel that they must be armed, and some criminals believe that they must "shoot or be shot".Yesterday, in another part of the country, Letchworth, two men were shot and wounded. It is right not to link that incident with this week's murder in Liverpool, since the circumstances appear very different. But in the public mind both stories are likely to add to popular concern about guns - and this concern is not all misplaced. The Portsmouth study, based on interviews with 80 convicted people, shows that guns can be bought for just £50 in some cities. While that is the case, people will use them. Gordon Brown yesterday offered to pass new laws, but the problem is one of enforcement, not legislation. Informed policing, working among gangs along the lines of London's Operation Trident, does work. Gun crime is still unusual. It must be made to remain so.