Police were castigated yesterday for delaying more than an hour before attending an incident where a man shot dead his estranged wife and her sister and seriously injured their mother. All three lay wounded while frantic neighbours tried to give them first aid.Vicky Horgan, 27, died shortly after a drunken Stuart Horgan, 39, shot her in the head with a .410 shotgun after bursting in on a barbecue at her home in Highmoor Cross, near Henley-on-Thames, in Oxfordshire, on June 6. Her 25-year-old sister, Emma Walton, was shot in the back and died later in hospital. Their mother was in a coma for two weeks but survived. But despite numerous 999 calls from neighbours, one of whom demanding police and ambulance response more than 50 times while giving a 70-minute running commentary on the horrific scene, armed officers did not arrive for 64 minutes after the first 999 call. It was 87 minutes before paramedics, awaiting police assurance it was safe, attended the wounded, even though it was fairly certain the gunman had fled in the first 22 minutes. A Home Office pathologist said Vicky Horgan would not have lived, and it was "highly unlikely" Ms Walton would have survived even if she had received immediate medical attention. But he conceded that had a specialist been available there was the "slimmest of possibilities that Ms Walton's life could have been saved." An internal review of the Thames Valley force's role, overseen by the Independent Police Complaints Commission, said there was no justification for the delay, and criticised a catalogue of failure. These included poor decision-making, delay in passing command of the situation to a specialist firearms officer, confusion in the control room and over the emergency services' rendezvous point. Peter Neyroud, Thames Valley chief constable, apologised to the victims' family and local people, and he paid tribute to neighbours, Roy and Georgina Gibson, who called the police and nursed the victims. Vicky Horgan died in Mrs Gibson's arms, and it was a letter from a furious Mr Gibson which sparked the police inquiry. He said: "We could have and should have been faster to the scene to protect the wounded and the public of Highmoor Cross. I regret very much the distress which the additional delay caused to the victims and witnesses." But Mr Neyroud and Detective Superintendent Mick Tighe, author of the review, said no individual officer was to blame. Instead, they claimed the fiasco was due to failings in training and national policy, which emphasises locating the perpetrator rather than getting to the victims. "The weaknesses identified ... are fundamental issues for Thames Valley police and possibly the police service nationally." Mr Neyroud admitted police had been overcautious, but said this stemmed from criticism of past incidents where armed officers had shot members of the public. He outlined measures he is putting in place to ensure this never happens again. Although Horgan, who had a history of domestic violence, was quickly flagged up as a suspect, police held back, fearing, Mr Neyroud said, another Hungerford, the Berkshire town where the gunman Michael Ryan shot dead 16 people and injured 14 before killing himself in 1987. Even when Mr Gibson assured them Horgan had left, they still refused to move in. And they might have delayed even longer had a plainclothes detective, acting on his own initiative, not stopped on his way to work and radioed to colleagues that the gunman was gone. Horgan was arrested the next day, 100 miles away in Peterborough, Cambridgeshire. On June 20 he killed himself by slashing his throat while on remand in Woodhill prison, Milton Keynes, four days after being taken off suicide watch. Yesterday, Mr Gibson, 70, and his wife, Georgina, 58, packing up to leave their home, said they could not bear to stay. Mr Gibson, who demanded a personal explanation from the Thames Valley chief constable in his letter, said he was satisfied police had admitted their mistakes. "We have seen the report and police have not tried to cover anything up," he said yesterday. Of the day of the murders, he remembered: "My wife was cradling Vicky, telling her help was on its way. But it wasn't. She died 45 minutes after we got to her."  How time was lost Sunday, June 6, 2004 4.35pm  Stuart Horgan climbs over garden fence of house in Highmoor Cross, Oxfordshire, where estranged wife, Vicky Horgan, is having a barbecue. Shoots Vicky's mother in the stomach, her sister, Emma Walton, in the back, and Vicky in the head. Leaves quickly but exact time unclear  4.37pm  Thames Valley police receive first 999 call, from neighbour, Dawn Clarke. Stuart Horgan identified as probable perpetrator. Neighbours Roy Gibson, armed with a piece of wood, and his wife, Georgina, try to give first aid to victims  4.39pm  Police control room inspector orders no officer attend the scene. Ambulance service contacted but cannot move in without armed escort. In next few minutes, armed response vehicles alerted and force helicopter dispatched  4.59pm  22 minutes after initial report, it is fairly certain Horgan is no longer in the vicinity  5.04pm  Tactical firearms adviser contacted. Henley police station, four miles from house, nominated as emergency services' rendezvous point  5.05pm  First ambulance crew go to the wrong place, old Henley police station, so rendezvous point switched to Emmer Green, five miles from house, but eight miles from first rendezvous point  5.15pm  A detective sergeant goes to the house on his own initiative, ascertains offender not present, speeding up deployment of armed officers, but delay due to switch of rendezvous points  5.41pm  Armed police enter house 64 minutes after first 999 call, and request ambulance crew  5.45pm  Crew refuse as police cannot confirm offender located and area safe  6.04pm  Paramedics enter, 87 minutes after initial alert, having received escort and clear assurances from police