The man who threw a plastic beer bottle at competitors at the start of the Olympic men's 100m final has been sentenced to an eight-week community order.Ashley Gill-Webb, 34, of South Milford, near Leeds, who has bipolar disorder, was found guilty of public disorder at Stratford magistrates court in east London last month.Sentencing him at Thames magistrates court, the district judge, William Ashworth, told Gill-Webb: "Your intention was to target the highest-profile event at the London Olympics and put off Usain Bolt."The potential harm of triggering a false start was significant. By good fortune, you failed. You did, however, spoil the occasion for some spectators and tarnish the spirit of the Games."Gill-Webb will be electronically monitored and be subject to a 7pm to 7am curfew. He was also ordered to pay a £1,500 contribution to costs.The judge said: "You suffer from bipolar disorder. At the time of the offence, you were in the throes of a manic episode. This made you over-confident and your behaviour risky. I have reduced your punishment to take account of the effects of your illness."He said Gill-Webb's behaviour was serious enough to demand punishment, but thought he was unlikely to offend again.Gill-Webb used an old ticket to get into the Olympic Park and then the stadium on 5 August. He hurled abuse at athletes including Bolt and then threw a bottle on to the track as the final began. It landed behind the lane markers and the sprinters as they raced out of their blocks in the showpiece race.Bolt, the world record-holder and defending champion, won in 9.63 seconds, ahead of his Jamaican team-mate Yohan Blake and the American Justin Gatlin.Gill-Webb was found guilty of intending to cause the sprinters harassment, alarm or distress by using threatening, abusive or disorderly behaviour, contrary to section 4 of the Public Order Act.The prosecutor, Helen Shaw, said the high-profile nature of the incident and the fact that the world was watching were aggravating factors, along with the location from which the bottle was hurled.It was a "once-in-a-four-year event watched by millions of people around the world", she said. "Some of the people who were in that area missed the event and had paid up to £4,000 a ticket."Tom Barley, defending, said Gill-Webb had risked inflicting "massive embarrassment on the country". He had since lost his job as a result of the bad publicity triggered by the case, and had two young children to look after, the court heard.Noting that alcohol did not have any influence, Barley suggested that for someone dealing with a mental illness on a day-to-day basis, "it must have been the worst day for it to happen, in the 100m final".Gill-Webb is being treated for his illness.