The first person I meet in Whitehaven doesn't know anyone is dead. She's a little girl who is holding her mother's hand and singing "Nee-nar-nee-nar-nee-nar", an echo of the dozens of ambulances and police sirens that have sounded in the streets of this town.In the high street beside the taxi rank where Derrick Bird worked and later killed, wreaths and flowers bring shoppers to a standstill. They stare silently, as if they can't understand what the tributes are doing there, or why journalists in suits and designers sunglasses have taken over their town.The shops are open and the traffic queues as it would on any other day but there's an unmistakable wariness on the faces of residents as they go about their business. There are already signs that the shock is turning to anger at the loss of the feeling of safety that was once taken for granted herein this rural area.Low crime, a peaceful way of life, friendly people – these are the words so often used to describe this part of the world. It is home, of course, to breathtaking scenery, the reason why so many artists and writers, including myself, have been inspired by it. I have always felt a great sense of nature's power behind the beauty here. The landscape is tranquil and also threatening.Isolation is an inevitable part of rural life, and people talk of the importance in such areas of a sense of community. But can a small, tight-knit network of friends and neighbours also make individuals feel trapped or angry?In Whitehaven, unlike Keswick or Windermere, there is not a heavy reliance on tourism. Instead, up to 70% of the workforce rely on Sellafield for employment. Yet it is obvious the town has benefited from investment and it appears to be doing more to attract holidaymakers. Whitehaven's Georgian houses, narrow streets, pretty harbour and spectacular countryside give the town considerable character and charm.An exhibition at the Beacon museum marks the centenary of a mining disaster that took the lives of 136 local men and boys. Mining, like shipping, is an industry that has long since left this area, but the old photographs are a touching tribute to the grandfathers and great-grandfathers lost in the disaster. How long, I wonder, will the mass shootings of three days ago haunt this town?The details of the victims and the events of the shootings themselves are still unfolding. In a newsagent a young man tells a friend that many of the victims were shot in the face, and a stunned silence follows. A newspaper report reveals that Bird wound down his window and called one victim over to his car before shooting her. Did she think he wanted directions? Or recognise him as a local taxi driver?This is a place where people know each other. These revelations and the subsequent questions and "aftershocks" that follow must be felt acutely and further fuel the demand for answers.The mood has all the rawness of bereavement. People are reluctant to talk and they lower their voices when they do, as though they have yet to believe it has really happened. One middle-aged woman can scarcely find the words to express her incredulity, but shares with me a common feeling that it was like something from the TV, it wasn't real, couldn't be, because things like that happened in America, not in Cumbria, in our town, on our streets.I ask a man if he thinks Whitehaven would become synonymous with the shootings in the same way Dunblane did. He shakes his head fiercely."We won't let that happen," he says. "There's too much pride here. We'll come back from this."Whitehaven is a strong, tight-knit community. So, too, is Cumbria as a whole. The towns and villages in this part of the country have had to deal with shared loss before – first of industry, then the floods of last year, and just last week the loss of two children in a coach crash.As I drive along the same roads that Derrick Bird followed on Wednesday, I can only hope Cumbria's sense of community will help everyone come to terms with what has happened.During the election campaign, politicians debated whether Britain was broken. Whitehaven isn't.Anna Ralph is author of The Floating Island, published by Hutchinson