Detectives investigating the double murder of a mother and daughter in Bootle, Merseyside, have said they are hunting for the son and brother of the victims. The body of Bernadette Fox, 57, was found at an address in Bootle at 4am on Friday, while that of her daughter Sarah, 27, was discovered at a property nearby at about 9.15pm on Thursday. Merseyside police said Bernadette had died of asphyxiation, while her daughter had been repeatedly stabbed.  I would stress to the public that if they do see Peter Fox, they should not approach him Merseyside police urgently want to question Peter Fox, 26, over the killings and warned the public not to approach him. DCI Dave Rooney said: “We are currently trying to trace Peter Fox, the son of Bernadette, as he could have information which could assist with our investigation. I would appeal to Peter to come forward so that we can speak to him following the murders of his mother and sister.“I would also ask the public to help us find Peter as we need to speak to him urgently in relation to the two murders. “I would stress to the public that if they do see Peter Fox, they should not approach him. We would urge anyone with information about his whereabouts to contact the police on 999.” Fox is described as white, between 5ft 2in and 5ft 5in, and of slight build with short dark hair – no longer shaved – and brown eyes. He speaks with a Liverpool accent.Both properties remain sealed off while forensic investigators carry out searches, and detectives are also looking for CCTV footage. Rooney added: “The investigation into these deaths is at an early stage and, although the motive is unclear at this time, we believe the offender may be known to the victims. “I would like to reassure residents who live in the Bootle area where these addresses are located that we have increased patrols in the area to provide reassurance and support.” In a statement issued through police, a spokesman for the Fox family said: “We are absolutely devastated following the loss of Bernadette and Sarah and are still trying to come to terms with what has happened to them both. “Bernadette, who was a mother of three and grandmother of three, was a very outgoing and lovely person who wouldn’t harm anyone. In fact she only ever had nice things to say about people. She was so caring and would help anyone. “And Sarah was loved by her family and well-liked by her friends and neighbours. She was a fantastic aunty and was a cheeky, bubbly and outgoing person who loved her dog. They will both be greatly missed. “We would ask that people appreciate that this is a sad and tragic time for the family and that we are left alone to grieve in peace, whilst we try to understand what has happened.” The family urged anyone with information about the incident to contact police to help them “find justice for Bernadette and Sarah”. Anyone with information on the murders is urged to call police on 0151 777-3802 or Crimestoppers on 0800 555-111.