The ancient role of the lord chancellor has won a reprieve and will be reformed rather than abolished, the current holder confirmed yesterday.Lord Falconer, who wanted to axe the 1,400-year-old post, has bowed to opposition from the House of Lords.Doing so obviates the need to amend the many statutes that refer to the lord chancellor, the oldest office in the government apart from the crown. The abolition of the lord chancellor and the creation of a supreme court have been the two most contentious proposals in the constitutional reform bill, which returns to the Lords for debate next Tuesday. The amendments tabled by the shadow lord chancellor Lord Kingsland and the former law lord Lord Lloyd say: "There shall continue to be a lord high chancellor of Great Britain." Lord Falconer hopes to get the supreme court approved by agreeing that the part of the bill creating it will not be brought into force until the building which will house the court has been refurbished. Middlesex Guildhall is emerging as the leading candidate. Lord Falconer, who will continue to combine his preferred title of constitutional affairs secretary with the role of lord chancellor, said the main thrust of his constitutional reform programme was more important than whether his historic title remained in place. The issue was "not critical", and what mattered was changing the nature of the relationship between judges and ministers. This had been achieved by no longer allowing the lord chancellor to sit as a judge or to be head of the judiciary, and by creating a judicial appointments commission to select judges. Under an agreement made with the judges, the lord chief justice will be the head of the judiciary. Although the title of lord chancellor will stay, Lord Falconer wants the job to be open to MPs and non-lawyers. But the peers' amendments say any future lord chancellor should be a member of the Lords who should have held high judicial office for at least two years or been a practising lawyer for at least 12 years. The government proposed the reforms in June last year, when the previous lord chancellor, Derry Irvine, lost his job.