A seven-year-old girl was gunned down so she could be "excluded" as a witness to what was almost a perfect crime, the Old Bailey heard today.Toni-Ann Byfield's body was found next to that of Bertram Byfield, a 41-year-old drug dealer whom she knew as her father. Post-mortem DNA tests showed he was not her biological parent.Joel Smith, a 32-year-old of no fixed address, denies murdering the pair in Byfield's bedsit at a hostel for ex-offenders in Kensal Green, north-west London, in September 2003.The court heard that Mr Smith - described by prosecutors as a self-confessed gunman and robber of drug dealers - had left no clues. There was no incriminating footage from CCTV cameras and no witnesses.Richard Horwell QC, outlining the prosecution's case, said Mr Smith was only arrested because widespread shock at Toni-Ann's killing had prompted people to come forward with information."He [Mr Smith] must have been confident that he had left behind no scientifically detectable trace of his presence," Mr Horwell said. "He had got away from the scene and would have got away from with the crime but for one fact."These murders were in no sense ordinary. These crimes had shocked the nation ... we suggest the notoriety was such that the normal barriers that exist between some individuals and the police had collapsed."Mr Horwell said friends and acquaintances of Mr Smith, who moved to Liverpool after the killings, had given information to the police.He said Mr Smith had told a friend on Merseyside: "I have blasted a Yardie and his girl."After being jailed in Liverpool, Mr Smith allegedly told one cellmate: "You and me are the same. We have both killed children."In September last year, another cellmate watched his reaction as he saw a BBC Crimewatch appeal for information about Toni-Ann's killer.During it, a detective said the girl's killer would "stand out like a sore thumb" amongst the criminal fraternity on Merseyside with his London accent.Mr Horwell said Mr Smith had jumped off his bed and turned the programme off, allegedly saying: "If they get me for this, I won't see the other side of the wall."The defendant was arrested in the prison in October 2005 and brought to London.The court heard Mr Smith claimed he had been to the hostel at which the Byfields were staying earlier on the night of the killings to buy cannabis. During that time, he said he had seen Toni-Ann sitting on the bed.The lawyer described Toni-Ann, who was raised in Jamaica and lived there until 2000, as "a bright, fun-loving girl".Byfield had previously been jailed for possession of crack cocaine with intent to supply, and had continued to trade in cocaine up to the time of his death.He had been shot in an earlier incident in 2002 and, as a drug dealer, was vulnerable to robbers. "Drug dealers are likely to have cash and drugs on their premises. They are unlikely to report crime to the police," Mr Horwell said.He said Toni-Ann had been gunned down after returning from a shopping trip with Byfield, during which she had been bought a uniform for the new school she had been due to start at on the Monday after the killing.The pair returned to Byfield's bedsit late on Saturday night. "Just after midnight, they were shot dead by a gunman - we suggest by the defendant," Mr Horwell told the court."He must have had the intention of either shooting Mr Byfield or robbing him, and shot him during the course of the robbery. The only [reason] Toni-Ann was shot was to eliminate her as a witness."A woman staying on the first floor of the hostel heard the girl scream and the sound of a disturbance, possibly a bike being thrown. "Then four shots - then silence," Mr Horwell said.Officers discovered Toni-Ann near the doorway of the room, while her father's body was entangled with a bicycle. He had been shot twice, once in the side of the body and once through his penis and leg, Mr Horwell said."She had been shot just once in the back, [and the bullet] exited through her lower abdomen," he added. "Neither had any prospect of survival and must have died very soon afterwards."Four rounds had been discharged from a 9mm self-loading, semi-automatic handgun, he said, adding: "We suggest the finger on the trigger was this defendant's."The trial continues.