A man has been arrested after two people were stabbed to death at sheltered housing in east London, police have said.A man in his 80s and a woman in her 50s were attacked in Ilford on Saturday night. They died at the scene. A 50-year-old man was arrested at the unit on suspicion of murder and taken to an east London police station, where he remains in custody. Both of the victims and the man arrested are believed to have been known to each other, but they were not related, Scotland Yard said.Police were called to Fernways on Cecil Road at 10pm on Saturday. Officers, London ambulance service and London’s air ambulance were called to the scene where the two victims were discovered with stab injuries. The woman was pronounced dead at 10.50pm and the pensioner was declared dead 15 minutes later. Their next of kin have been informed but formal identification has not taken place. None of the three were members of staff at the care home, officers said. Postmortem examinations were due to be held this afternoon at East Ham mortuary. Officers remain at the scene and will be speaking with residents to provide reassurance. Detectives are not seeking anyone else in connection with the investigation.Fernways sheltered housing unit is managed by Redbridge council, which provides 24-hour care to tenants. Krishna Sheth-Gilston said her aunt, who lives in the accommodation, heard the commotion in the flat above her and feared the floor would fall in. “There was a lot of noise coming from the flat above her. At first she did not think much of it, but then it carried on,” Sheth-Gilston said. “There was lots of screaming and fighting.” Her aunt notified the warden after becoming nervous about “thumping” sounds. “She thought the floor was going to cave in,” Sheth-Gilston said. She said the accommodation was open to visitors, but she thought security was good. “I do not think there are any restrictions,” she said. “You have to call in. You cannot just walk in. It’s really good security. They are all very well looked after.” Anyone with information is asked to contact police on 020-8721 4868, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.