Teachers and civil rights campaigners yesterday voiced alarm at Metropolitan police proposals to create a database of potential offenders which would include youngsters who have never been involved in crime.Deputy commissioner Ian Blair is to meet the government's information commissioner this week to discuss his plans for the register, which would help officers to monitor and support likely victims and lawbreakers. The Met would ask schools and social services to share their information on children - as young as three, according to some sources - who they believed were at risk of offending. Mr Blair believes the idea is necessary to tackle the rise in youth crime, although he has admitted it is "pretty revolutionary". Elizabeth France, the information commissioner, said there was concern over who would have access to the information. "The trick is getting a balance between reducing youth crime and making sure that the youngsters and their privacy is respected. "We would also want to know if individuals will know information is being passed on and be able to check its accuracy." Teachers and civil rights campaigners said they feared the information could lead to children being stigmatised. "It's an extremely worrying step," said Mark Littlewood, director of campaigns at Liberty, the campaign for human rights. "If you start labelling people who haven't done anything wrong as suspects you are leading to greater alienation and may well find that your predictions are self-fulfilling ... to do it to children is absolutely appalling." A spokeswoman for the National Union of Teachers said: "There will be a lot of discomfort in education about the assumptions being made about children who are so young." The Met yesterday refused to discuss the grounds on which children might be included and how old children would have to be before they could be listed. But when Mr Blair first mooted the proposals at a meeting of the government's youth justice board in November, police sources suggested that children could go on the register if they were involved in truancy, minor vandalism or causing a nuisance. Mr Blair told the meeting: "This is pretty revolutionary stuff. "There will be lots of worries but as long as it is understood that the purpose of holding this information is to ensure that we should collectively intervene to prevent children from becoming criminal, I think that it will be accepted."