An explosion that blew up three terrace houses could have been an attack against a 17-year-old schoolgirl, her mother said yesterday.Charlotte Anderson was badly burned in a blast on Wednesday last week which brought down three houses in a quiet street in Harrow, north-west London, and crushed to death her neighbour, a 26-year-old Pakistani man, Emad Qureshi.Detectives later launched a murder inquiry after it emerged that a mystery purple liquid was poured through Charlotte's letterbox hours before the explosion. The explosion was initially thought to have been sparked by a gas leak. Speaking for the first time since the blast, her mother suggested yesterday that Charlotte could have been the target of an attack.Elaine Leonard, 41, from Cramlington, Northumberland, said her daughter had been having trouble with some girls. "On the day of the explosion she found some purple liquid had been poured through her door. "She thought it was a stink bomb and tried to clean it up. Then later that night she was on the phone when there was a massive explosion and the ceiling fell down all around her. The next thing she remembers was screaming for help and a man dragging her out from the rubble."Detectives are seeking to establish what the purple liquid was. One theory is that a group of teenagers researched the ingredients needed to create an explosion on the internet. Det Chief Insp Colin Sutton, who is leading the investigation, previously said: "We are aware that at some point during the course of Wednesday there was a substance put through the letterbox. There may well be a connection between this liquid and the cause of the explosion. "If it were a volatile liquid and in a confined space it could evaporate into an explosive mixture. They are obviously people she knows, who were there to do her some harm. Whoever did this, if it is what we think it is, it was targeted. It was not a random person going around blowing up flats in Harrow." Leonard said her daughter, who was born in Tyneside and was working towards the qualifications for a university course in childcare, could be scarred for life. "You hear about things like this on the telly, but you can't believe it until you see it with your own eyes and it happens to you or your family. You look at the street and there's nothing left. I don't know how Charlotte survived. When I saw her I didn't recognise her. She was burned all over her face and body. "She is a lovely lass and I always tease her about being a poser. She always wants to look good for the camera."Neighbours have described the dramatic moments after the blast, which could have claimed more lives. Charlotte was rescued by locals scrabbling through dust and rock with their hands. One man saw her arm poking out of the rubble and managed to pull her from the debris."She'll turn 18 in a few weeks," Leonard added. "She should have been having the time of her life, but instead she could still be in hospital."