The parents of a 17-year-old girl whose badly decomposed body was found in a river may have been trying to force her into marriage against her will, an inquest heard yesterday.Shafilea Ahmed disappeared from her home in Warrington, Cheshire, four months after a family trip to Pakistan, on which she was introduced to a potential suitor. During the holiday she drank bleach and self-harmed in an apparent cry for help. The inquest was also told of reports that she had been subjected to domestic abuse at home. Police launched a murder inquiry after her body was found concealed in undergrowth in February 2004, after the river Kent in Sedgwick, Cumbria, was swollen by floods.Shafilea's father, Iftikhar Ahmed, 48, and his wife Farzana, 45, vehemently deny any involvement in their daughter's disappearance or death and claim they were victims of racial stereotyping. Detective Superintendent Geraint Jones, who led the murder inquiry, told the inquest in Kendal that her parents had been arrested on suspicion of kidnapping in December 2003, but were released without charge. Suspicions had been aroused by statements from people who knew Shafilea claiming that she was "subject to domestic abuse and potential for forced marriage". He said there was reason to "suspect her family of involvement in her disappearance".Shafilea had run away from home in February 2003, apparently because of concerns she would be made to marry a man of her parents' choice during a trip to Pakistan later in the year. Her parents called the police to report her missing. During that time the police were called when witnesses saw her father try to force Shafilea into a car outside her school.Jones said Shafilea had told several different people and professionals that she was "frightened of being forced into marriage". Iftikhar Ahmed reassured police that there would be no forced marriage and the planned trip to Pakistan was to be a family holiday. But after the Pakistan trip her parents had come back to Warrington without her, cashing in Shafilea's return ticket to Manchester.She remained in Pakistan until June, where she drank bleach and self-harmed. On her return to the UK she spent several weeks in hospital. But by September 2003 she had enrolled at a sixth form college, was making friends and had a part-time job before she disappeared for the last time. She was reported missing to police by a former teacher at Great Sankey high school who overheard her younger siblings talking about her disappearance. Other family members, in Bradford, were arrested on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.When she first went missing in February 2003 her family phoned and texted her, "pleading with her to come home." But after her second disappearance there were no such messages, Jones said. "We were really desperate to find her but we just knew that we were dealing with a body and not a live person. One possible hypothesis is here is a girl who isn't conforming with what the family wants. The next stage is to carry out a murder."Dr Alison Armour, a Home Office pathologist, said it was "not credible" that the teenager died of natural causes. The remains were badly decomposed and the skull and organs were missing, so she was unable to ascertain a cause of death. However, a natural cause was "unsustainable because of the concealment of the body on the riverbank. The most likely cause of death would be smothering or strangulation." Iftikhar Ahmed told the south and east Cumbria coroner, Ian Smith, that the family had been proud of Shafilea's achievements and ambitions to be a lawyer. She was a bright child, but problems arose when she began sixth form.Smith asked Ahmed what kind of person his daughter was. "She was a very normal child, very bright. The problems arose when she became in the sixth form." Nobody has been charged with her murder and her parents offered a £5,000 reward to catch the killer. Cheshire police released poems Shafilea had written in which she expressed her frustration at her life and her family's preoccupation with honour.Heather Gibbon and her mother Inez Byrom, who live in Sedgwick, told the inquest they noticed a white Transit type van parked "oddly" in a layby near the river around the time of Shafilea's disappearance in September 2003. Weeks later they noticed an atrocious smell from the layby as they walked their dogs. Anthony Kitchen, a highways worker who discovered the body, said: "My first impression was it was a first aid doll."The hearing continues.