A man who raped a vulnerable 18-year-old woman after dragging her from a bus stop and battering her repeatedly with a stone has been jailed for 14 years.Zdenko Turtak, 22, a Slovakian national, received the jail term at Leeds crown court as part of a 20-year extended sentence after attacking the woman in the Beeston area of Leeds in March. His victim was left with severe injuries after she was dragged behind a hedge and battered 18 times with the rock. Judge Peter Collier QC, said the attack would affect the victim for the rest of her life. He said: “The effect has been profound, both now and, so far as one can see, that effect is likely to remain. She believes it will affect her whole life, including her prospects of marriage. In those short eight minutes you destroyed her young life. All her youthful hopes and dreams ebbed away in those few minutes.” The court heard that Turtak grabbed the woman as she waited at a bus stop and carried her into a garden, where he beat her with a stone he had in his pocket and then raped her. The attack was caught by a CCTV camera and footage was also found of Turtak following other women in Leeds in the hours leading up to the offence. Turtak, from Vel’ká Ida, Košice, Slovakia, fled to his native country as a huge search was launched by West Yorkshire police. He was traced after a DNA match in Europe and extradited to the UK. Collier said: “You seized her and by sheer brute force overwhelmed her and bundled her into the small garden. There was a high hedge between that garden and the footpath. “Although she struggled, she had no chance of resisting you. Continuing your attack, you pushed her face down to the ground and held her down. With her face pressed against the ground she was unable to scream or raise any alarm. “She tried to struggle free. In order to quell her struggling, you took a large stone from your pocket. Rapist who beat victim with rock didn't care if she died, court hears “You then struck her 18 times about her head with ferocious blows. I am satisfied that you were attempting to render her into a state in which she would be unable to resist you.” Turtak, admitted rape and grievous bodily harm with intent earlier this year but denied attempted murder. This month, the Crown Prosecution Service decided to accept his pleas and not put him on trial for attempted murder. Collier imposed an extended sentence of 20 years, with a custodial sentence of 14 years and an extension period of six years. Turtak will have to serve at least two-thirds of the custodial sentence before being considered for release. As Turtak was led from the dock, members of the victim’s family shouted “monster” and “rapist”. 