Five people have been killed in London in the past two days, the most recent a retired couple stabbed to death in their home on a private estate near Hampstead Heath, shocking the quiet community.The bodies of Derek Robinson, 75, a retired consultant paediatrician, and his wife Jean, a former music teacher in her 60s, were discovered by a painter-decorator who arrived to work at the three-bedroom semi in the secluded Holly Lodge estate on Highgate Hill at 8am yesterday. He apparently disturbed the killer and gave chase, but the assailant leapt over the back garden fence. Last night police officers were looking for the murder weapon. There was no forced entry and nothing is believed to have been stolen. A trail of blood led from the house to the garden fence, and detectives think the couple fought with their attacker and that he was badly injured. Yesterday afternoon a man was arrested at King's Cross in central London. Detective Superintendent Sue Hill said at the scene: "This is a horrific attack. These people were in their own home and they were slaughtered." The couple have three adult daughters and grandchildren. They had lived alone in Holly Lodge for about five years. Their next-door neighbour Matthew Power said: "They were wonderful people." Earlier yesterday morning, a man in his twenties was found with fatal stab wounds in Tottenham High Road, north London. He died in hospital. Police said it was a shocking attack in the early hours of the morn ing, when people would have been around. On Thursday afternoon, a 16-year-old A-level student was stabbed to death after he tried to help a friend in a school brawl in Hackney, east London. Robert Levy was stabbed in the neck and chest after he intervened in an altercation between two fighting groups. A 16-year-old boy has been arrested in connection with the stabbing. Robert is believed to have stepped in after another teenager pulled out a knife while his best friend's back was turned. "He wasn't meant to be stabbed. He wasn't meant to die," said a school friend who did not wish to be named. "He was saving his best friend. He was a great kid. It's tragic." Witnesses said there was a trail of blood in the 50 metres from the scene of the attack to the spot outside the Technology and Information Centre in Hackney where Robert died. Another attack occurred in Croydon on Thursday, and police believe there may be a link between the killing of a 65-year-old man who died after being attacked with a screwdriver and the case of a 40-year-old man who was found with serious head injuries and is now in intensive care. Police arrived to investigate the serious assault, but while the area was being sealed off they found the other man, believed to be an Asian in his mid-60s, who was pronounced dead at the scene. A post mortem showed he died of multiple injuries and had a broken jaw. Detectives yesterday arrested a 20-year-old man in Hampshire. He was due to be brought to London for questioning.