The Home Office will today propose to outlaw the possession of extreme adult pornography downloaded over the internet from abroad.Although the existing Obscene Publications Act makes publishing such pornography an offence, the government argues that the internet has made getting hold of it easier while at the same time allowing suppliers to evade prosecution. In a consultation document published today the Home Office suggests making illegal "the possession of a limited range of extreme pornographic material featuring adults". It cites the depiction of bestiality, sexual interference with a human corpse or certain forms of extreme violence involving serious bodily harm."This is material which is extremely offensive to the vast majority of people and it should have no place in our society," said the Home Office minister, Paul Goggins. "The fact that it is available over the internet should in no way legitimise it. These forms of violent and abusive pornography go far beyond what we allow to be shown in films or even sold in licensed sex shops in the UK, so they should not be available online either."The government and campaigners cite the case of Jane Longhurst, killed in 2003 by a man obsessed with violent sexual pornography. Her mother Liz, who has helped organise a petition that has so far been signed by more than 35,000 people, yesterday welcomed the proposed new law.She was joined by Labour backbencher Martin Salter, another of the petition organisers. He said Mrs Longhurst was motivated "by the desire to ensure that other patients did not experience her dreadful loss when her lovely daughter Jane was murdered by a sick, self-confessed addict of extreme internet porn. Now at last the loophole in the law caused by the creation of the internet will finally be closed".The consultation document admits that research into the subject is not advanced enough to confirm the link between such pornography and violent crime. "We recognise that accessing such material does not necessarily cause criminal activity," it says. "We consider the moral and public protection case against allowing this kind of material sufficiently strong."The document reveals that there are "hundreds of internet sites offering a wide range of material featuring the torture of [mostly female] victims who are tied to some kind of apparatus or restrained in other ways and stabbed with knives, hooks and other implements. Depictions of necrophilia and bestiality are also widely available".The consultation document suggests various ways in which the law could be changed to mirror existing rules on child pornography. These make possession as well as publication an offence and have led to a series of high-profile prosecutions in recent years while other prosecutions under the Obscene Publications Act have declined.Yesterday the Association of Chief Police Officers' spokesman on sexual violent crime, Commander Dave Johnson, backed the consultation, which runs to December. "The internet is being targeted more and more by those who create sites that specialise in sexual violence and other types of extreme perversion," he said. "Many of the sites are abroad and outside the jurisdiction of United Kingdom law enforcement agencies. Opportunities for prosecution only exist when links to such sites are found in this country."The Liberal Democrats also welcomed the consultation. But the chairman of the Lib Dem parliamentary party, Paul Homes, added: "Obviously we need to ensure that the right balance is struck between preventing the spread and production of extreme, violent and degrading pornography whilst ensuring that the legitimate private sexual freedom of adults is not undermined."