A primary school teacher was jailed for 12 months today and banned from working with children for life after she admitted sending a 14-year-old boy "crude and explicit" text messages.Lynn Walls, 42, sent sexually explicit texts, then came to rely on her young victim emotionally, including lying to him that she had cancer. The offending caused lasting damage, Newcastle crown court heard, as the schoolboy came to feel withdrawn, guilty and suicidal.They first made contact on the World of Warcraft internet game. After chatting online they swapped mobile phone numbers, the court heard. The teenager, from London, told Walls his age, said Penny Moreland, prosecuting, but regardless of this Walls sent texts inviting him to have sex with her. Moreland said: "The language and expressions used were not those that I have used, they were crude and explicit in the extreme."In other texts, Walls confided childhood problems, falsely claimed to have breast cancer, and said she loved him. Moreland said the victim felt guilty as a result and struggled to cope, being only 14.The boy's mother made a victim impact statement in which she said the boy, now 15, had changed dramatically since the offences in November 2007.Moreland said he had expressed suicidal thoughts, was abusive and had a "phobia of people". His school attendance had deteriorated and he considered leaving when he turned 16. He and his family were being counselled as a result."He is now seeing only the worst in people, he is unforgiving, unwilling to trust and very critical of others," said Moreland.Walls, of Penshaw, Wearside, was a primary school teacher in County Durham and has a son. The judge, Richard Lowden, banned her from working with children for life and put her on the sex offenders register for 10 years.At a previous hearing she admitted one count of enticing a child to engage in sexual activity. The judge said he had not intended to jail her until he saw the mother's statement. "It is not just the grossly inappropriate sexual conduct of the message that has done the damage, but to my mind, more damaging was the emotional burden that you put upon that boy, so that in the end he felt responsible for you," he said.Nick Peacock, defending, said his client accepted full responsibility.Walls was married for 20 years until she discovered her husband was having an affair. She became a recluse and spent hours playing World of Warcraft, a game described in court as highly addictive in which players create virtual characters.Peacock said: "She designed someone who was thin, attractive and blonde. Walls told police the character was "everything I was not," the court heard.