The last six months of her marriage would have been unbelievable to Susie 17 years ago, when she met and fell in love with her husband. The romance led to one daughter, then another; their lives developed into a normal west London existence of jobs and family and home. When the marriage came to an end last autumn, however, her husband refused to leave the family house.He began bullying, harassing and beating her. There were ugly rows and the police were called at least half a dozen times. Solicitors were instructed, injunctions sought, bruises photographed, statements taken. Two weeks ago, Susie's husband was ordered to leave the house. In so far as Susie is now safe, this could count as a success; a vindication of the new and improved Metropolitan police approach to domestic violence. And yet no one involved in the story seems quite happy with how it worked out. You might think that when someone beats somebody else up, it should be a relatively straight forward criminal matter. But even with all the progressive reforms undertaken by the Met, domestic violence is still a tortuously complicated crime to punish. At least the old cliche of domestic violence being something to keep pregnant WPCs busy has been swept away in London. Every borough now has a Community Safety Unit, set up in response to the Macpherson report after the murder of Stephen Lawrence to target "hate crimes" (racial and homophobic attacks), abuse of vulnerable adults and the elderly, and domestic violence. In practice, however, only around 10% of the CSU's workload has turned out to be race-related; domestic violence accounts for 70%. Detective Inspector Jo Edwards leads the CSU at Paddington Green station in west London. In her 30s, she has four sergeants beneath her, each running a team of five officers, and is unexpectedly candid about how she recruits them: "I sell it by saying it will look good on their CV." The detectives I meet all describe joining the CSU as a "good career move", which indicates quite how far attitudes to domestic violence have changed. In the large, cluttered CSU offices, two detective constables are looking bleary-eyed. Yesterday was a long haul - a 20-hour shift, but satisfying, if decidedly unusual. A man handed himself in at the station, afraid that he had seriously hurt his girlfriend, whom he had assaulted at her home over a 36-hour period. In the interview room the officers were unable to shut him up as he poured his heart out about the relationship, and this morning the court remanded him in custody for a week. His girlfriend has agreed to press charges. "It took us an hour and a half to persuade her to go to court," reports Detective Sergeant Martin Peters. "She was in quite a distressed state. But that's one victim who, after being helped and talked to by us, is brave enough to go forward and prosecute." If DS Peters sounds pleased with himself, he should probably be excused because, as he wearily admits, cases like this don't come along very often. "Er, well, no. This does tend to be the minority." Detective Constable Tony Quinlan is looking equally upbeat. The trial is about to begin of a man charged with kidnapping his ex-girlfriend and imprisoning her in his flat, and she has come in today to run through her witness statement. She went through all the agonies of self-doubt and guilt; wondering if she was responsible for the attack, worrying about what the defence might say in court, fearing what he might do to her if he is convicted. "I'm scared," she says, wearing a broad, protective mask of a smile. But then she says what CSU officers long to hear. "I think I have a responsibility to society. You take being secure for granted, but once in a while something happens to you, and you have to make a stand. I've thought about this long and hard, and when it comes down to it, the fact remains that a crime has been committed and someone needs to be punished for it." The work can take its toll, however. With two years' service, Sherma Hicks is one of the unit's longest serving staff, and says: "I need to get out. I need something basic - give me some burglaries, some theft. Just something straightforward." After two years, "Nothing - and I mean nothing - surprises me any more. The only other crime I can think of where the victim has to be persuaded by the police that it matters is rape." Hicks reels off a list of cases she has worked on; a woman strangled until she lost consciousness, another whose partner poured petrol over her. Yet time and again the victims tell her, "Better the devil you know," and choose not to press charges. "Suddenly, we are the bad guys. We are the scapegoats. The uniformed police have been called, they have gone to the address, taken the man in for the night, got rid of the problem. The next day, we call her up, and suddenly we are the trouble-makers. I say, 'Next time you could be in a coffin.' But you see, no one can believe that their husband will kill them." This is the terrible paradox that runs to the heart of domestic violence policing. More than three-quarters of all murders in Britain are domestic - and yet the victims of the violence which often precedes a murder are frequently reluctant to take legal action, even when that violence happens repeatedly. On average, a woman has been beaten 30 times before she makes her first call to the police, and many couples are on first name terms with Paddington Green CSU officers but still never make it to court. One thing the Met is increasingly willing to do is pursue a "prosecution without the victim", taking the perpetrator to court against the wishes of the victim. With enough evidence - a recording of the 999 call, a neighbour's testimony, medical records, forensics, photographs - it can be possible to get a conviction, even when the victim has to be called as a hostile witness. In a best case scenario, the victim is grateful; her attacker is punished, but cannot blame her. At worst, admits an officer, "She hates us. We're between the devil and the deep blue sea. As far as she's concerned, we've signed her death warrant." The CSU office doesn't feel like an inspiring place to work. It is a grey room full of frustration, where the ugly mess of soured intimacy washes in, often washing back out unresolved, only to swill back in again. When violence flares, officers say, both parties are usually drunk, and the row is about money. Files are stack up on desks, recording the pitiable excuses - she provoked me, she's always nagging, she didn't do what I said - and the phone calls from victims on the morning of the trial, to say they have changed their mind. "It's very frustrating," Hicks admits. "Just trying to drum into them that there is more to life than being beaten up by your loved one. It's very difficult not to get emotionally involved." It also seems to be difficult not to grow cynical. Detective Sergeant Glyn Jones admits that he sees the same old names appearing again and again, and thinks, "Oh no, not again. But you still have to explain everything to them, even if you've said it all 10 times before. It's soul-destroying, really. But from our point of view, if a murder happens later, I can't say, 'Well, she never wanted to know.' That's not good enough any more. But really," and he looks irritated, "they have to help themselves." But, argues Susie, it is not as straightforward as that: she spent six traumatic months trying to get her estranged husband out of her house, and says: "Every time I called the police, and thought that I would get some kind of real protection, I never did. When they turn up, you're taken into different rooms, and you both give a version of what is going on. My husband is well spoken, and quite distinguished; he knows the rules. So when the police would come, they would look at him - calm, completely in control - and nobody would believe he could have lost his temper. And here I am - completely in shock, in a state of complete emotional turmoil, hardly able to find the words." Most incidents take place late at night, after the CSU team has gone home and the problem is that officers who answer 999 calls are not trained in handling domestic violence. If in doubt, officers are encouraged to arrest, but in the absence of visible injuries, and faced with an impenetrable dispute, the uniformed officers may do as they did each time Susie called - return to the station and file a non-crime report. CSU detectives made follow up phone calls, but relations were difficult. "They said, 'We will put you in a refuge.' I'm thinking, no way. These children have never even seen a council flat. You work all your life to bring up your children, and they end up in a refuge? I'm sorry, no way. He should be in a refuge." But she didn't want to pursue a prosecution. "He is the father of my children. I was with him for 17 years. Do I want him in jail? Come on." A civil injunction is often a quicker solution than the criminal courts, and CSUs actively help victims apply. In the end, this was how Susie's husband was evicted from her home. But she has been left feeling let down by the police, and the CSU is left, once again, without a conviction. Meanwhile, one in four women are still going to be beaten up at some point by their partner.