Eleven boys aged 12 to 16 were arrested today in connection with the murder of 10-year-old Damilola Taylor as more than 200 police officers raided homes across the capital at dawn.The boys have been detained at police stations across London and police described the development as "significant". The arrested boys were not from the same school as Damilola. Officers attended an early-morning briefing in central London before being deployed, Scotland Yard said. Police said the arrests were filmed and the addresses were searched. Police said eight of the youths were black, two were of Mediterranean appearance and one was white. One is aged 12, two are 13, two are fourteen, five are fifteen and one is 16. All the boys will be interviewed by police today.The youths arrested included two boys who were previously detained along with a 39-year-old woman, Scotland Yard said.The arrests come more than two weeks after Damilola bled to death in a stairwell on a run-down estate in Peckham, south London. The Nigerian-born boy was stabbed in the leg as he walked home from an after-school computer class on November 27. He dragged himself 100 yards along the street before collapsing. Earlier this week, police had said that at least three significant witnesses had not yet come forward. Detectives said they wanted to speak to two groups of black male youths seen during Damilola's final journey. On Tuesday, police said a new witness had reported seeing a group of male youths standing by telephone boxes at 4.30pm in Blakes Road, near where Damilola died. The smallest boy stood apart from the others and was wearing a dark jacket, tracksuit bottoms and a dark hat with a large stripe design.Related special reportSpecial report: Policing crimeRelated13 December: Police in Damilola case make appeal to youths11 December: Second post-mortem to be carried out on Damilola8 December: Thousand gather to mourn Damilola2 December: Father tells of bitterness and lossFirst report: Death of a schoolboyThe CCTV shots Useful linksMetropolitan policeLondon Borough of SouthwarkLocal media: South London onlineDownload Damilola's school's Ofsted report