The former girlfriend of Soham accused Ian Huntley denied helping to cover up the abduction of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman, the Old Bailey heard today.Maxine Carr told police that she had nothing to do with the disappearance of the two 10-year-olds, saying that there was no sign of them in the couple's home when she returned from a family visit.The murder trial was continuing to hear disclosures from police interviews with Ms Carr. The 26-year-old teaching assistant told police that she initially gave Mr Huntley a false alibi for Sunday August 4 last year, the day on which Holly and Jessica went missing.She was asked by officers how she would have reacted had she returned from the visit to discover that former Soham Village College caretaker Mr Huntley had been involved in the girls' disappearance. She told them: "I would have taken them back - I wouldn't have done anything, I wouldn't have played along with anything. "I wouldn't protect him from the charges you are throwing at him, murder or abduction or whatever." Ms Carr later admitted to police that she had been in Grimsby visiting family on the day the girls disappeared, and said that she had kept in regular phone contact with Mr Huntley during that weekend.Reading statements from Saturday August 17, when Ms Carr and 29-year-old Mr Huntley were arrested in connection with the murder of the two schoolgirls, prosecution counsel Karim Khalil QC said Mr Huntley had called Ms Carr the day after the girls went missing. Ms Carr said: "I said, 'you sound tired', and he said, 'I've been out with police searching for some kids'. That was the first I heard about it." She said that Mr Huntley had previously called her at around 7pm on the Sunday. The court had previously been told that the last sightings of Holly and Jessica were timed at around 6.30pm."He did mention [that] some girls asked about me," Ms Carr's statement said. It was not until the following afternoon that Mr Huntley called and told her that it was Holly and Jessica who had called for her, she added."He said, 'the bad thing about it is it's the girls that came and asked about you'," the statement said. "He just said he was sorting Sadie [his dog] out and they came to the side of the car. He just looked up and there were these girls, and they asked, 'how's Miss Carr', and he was a bit gobsmacked because he didn't know who they were. "He said, 'she's not too good, because she didn't get the job'." Ms Carr said the girls had told him that they were sorry, and had asked him to pass that on to her before disappearing up the road.The court heard yesterday that Ms Carr told police she had lied about her whereabouts on August 4 because Mr Huntley had faced a rape charge in 1998, and she wanted to protect him from being falsely accused again.Ms Carr told police that Holly and Jessica had never been to her house before their visit on August 4. She added that Mr Huntley was "wary" of the local schoolchildren "because of the job he's in, if you know what I mean".She said their neighbour had a 14-year-old daughter who liked to come and play with the dog, but that Mr Huntley would tell her to come back later if she called when he was alone.She strongly denied the suggestion that Mr Huntley could have killed the girls, saying: "No he couldn't, because he wouldn't do anything like that. "He wouldn't hurt anybody. I know him inside out, he is a very emotional person ... I cannot say 100% - all I can say is I know Ian, I know Ian better than you or anybody here or anybody else or even his mother." She continued: "He is not a malicious person, he is not a violent person, I just can't see any particular reason why he could be accused of something like this."Today, the court heard that, before the couple's arrests on August 17, Ms Carr described Mr Huntley as being "very upset". She said that he urged her to admit that she had not been in Soham on the day Holly and Jessica disappeared. Her statement said that Mr Huntley had told her: "They are going to arrest us both." She told police: "I did not know what to say or anything ... he says just tell them the truth, just tell them the truth about everything ... and everything will be all right."She told police Mr Huntley had become increasingly worried that he was going to be accused of abducting the girls because he had been the last person to see them and because of the charges he had faced in 1998.The couple had initially avoided giving interviews to the media, she said, because they felt it would appear that they were seeking "five minutes of fame". However, they later agreed to an interview with the BBC's Look East because Mr Huntley felt that this would draw a line under the media's interest in them.She said Mr Huntley had been told that journalists had been asking why they were reluctant to go on television, and whether there was "something dodgy" in their past. Ms Carr told police that they were both innocent, saying: "He [Mr Huntley] hasn't got anything to hide at all ... I am here and I know I haven't done anything, and I know Ian hasn't done anything, and yet we are still here."Mr Huntley denies murdering the girls, but has admitted one charge of conspiring to pervert the course of justice. Ms Carr denies the conspiracy charge and two counts of assisting an offender.The trial continues.