Yesterday's report from the new Sentencing Guidelines Council - the first in a five-year exercise - should be celebrated. The council already knows it can expect controversy, with a leak to the Sunday Times slashed across the front page under the misleading headline: "Murderers to be freed after seven years." The aim of the council, which will set the rate for over 2,000 offences, is to promote a more rational sentencing system. Never has it been more urgently needed. Huge variations exist between different courts, but the trend is all in one direction: more custody. Where it took four decades up to 1991 for the prison population to rise by 11,000, the rise since then has been 25,000, more than double in a decade. Yet this has coincided with the most sustained crime drop for 100 years with both burglary and car crime reduced by a third.Yesterday's report tackled an issue that affects all 2,000 offences: guidelines on the reduction in sentences for pleading guilty. This is not a new concept but the draft guidelines seek more consistency by setting out a sliding rule that begins with a 10% reduction for a late plea at the door of the court, when much of the work of the police and prosecutors will have already been made, to up to 33% for an early guilty plea. The earlier the plea the earlier victims and other witnesses are reassured that they will not have to undergo the trauma of giving evidence. In exceptional circumstances, the reduction in sentence could be even higher than one-third if an offender turns himself in after committing a crime or goes to the police in an old and forgotten case where there is no evidence. Under this procedure, the tariff could be cut to less than seven years, as it is now for mercy killers. David Davies, the shadow home secretary, has already expressed opposition to the council. He told the Sunday Times: "The dramatic reduction of the minimum sentence for murder makes a mockery of David Blunkett's claims to be tough on serious crime." The home secretary should be embarrassed having divided murder into three categories with tough populist minimum sentences - 15 years, 30 years, and "whole life". But in reality the 15 years, thankfully, does mean people who help relatives with incurable and excruciatingly painful diseases to die, can receive a much lower tariff. Most opinion polls suggest the public opposes custody in these cases. Here is an opportunity for Mr Blunkett to set up a comprehensive review of murder, which the Law Commission, the government's legal advisers, called for last month but the home secretary rejected.