A jogger stabbed to death in a "frenzied" attack in the rose garden of a London park was yesterday identified as a promising 27-year-old artist.The woman, who was found in a pool of blood in Victoria Park, Tower Hamlets, east London, was named by police as US-born Margaret Muller. Ms Muller, who was only 4ft 10ins, had studied and taught at the Slade School of Fine Art in London and lived alone in a one-bedroom flat near the park. Police were yesterday examining links between the killing which happened at 8.30am on Monday and a knifepoint rape at a nearby park last week. But they have not ruled out the possibility that Ms Muller may have known her attacker. They will be speaking to fellow artists, students and clients and last night were combing her flat for clues. Ms Muller, who is thought to have been jogging through the popular park in a fleece, leggings and trainers, was found after dog walkers and other runners heard her screams. Park keepers tried to revive her. She suffered multiple stab wounds, including one to her throat. Police managed to identify Ms Muller through her mobile phone. They traced a cousin who lives in Britain and was able to identify the body. Ms Muller was born in Virginia, where her parents still live. She came to the UK five years ago after working as an assistant to a Washington artist, Walter Kravitz, and studied at Slade. Her paintings had been shown at Slade, the George Mason University in Fairfax, Virginia, where she studied geology, and at the University of Maryland. She also worked as a teaching assistant at Slade. In an interview in London's Evening Standard in 2001 she spoke of her love of art and described her determination to do "that most old-fashioned of things" - to draw live models. But many of her paintings and self-portraits are dark in nature. One disturbing painting - Dust To Dust - apparently shows a dead young woman. Another, a self-portrait in her "Introspection" series, is entitled Look Over Your Shoulder. But she also undertook commissions and had recently produced colourful pictures of racehorses for a client. A spokesman for Slade said: "Her tutors found her to be a keen, vibrant student with a passion for her subject. She made a positive and enthusiastic contribution to the life of the Slade." Police remain puzzled that although Victoria Park was busy at the time of Ms Muller's murder, nobody seems to have seen what happened or anyone running away from the scene. The two-square-mile park is flat and open apart from the rose garden where the attack took place. Detective Chief Superintendent Jon Shatford said: "We are extremely concerned at the frenzied attack and the fact it was in broad daylight. "This is an individual who acted very quickly, shown by the fact that no witnesses have seen him." However, Mr Shatford said police were keen to speak to a white man in his late teens who spoke to a park keeper and helped direct an ambulance. Mr Shatford said there was no indication that Ms Muller had been the victim of a sexual assault. But detectives are investigating the possibility that there may be a link between the killing and the rape of a woman in nearby London Fields, Hackney, at 5pm last Thursday. Officers have warned women to be cautious if they were visiting the park or the surrounding area. Police dogs and an underwater search unit were still combing areas of the park, which has a number of ponds and runs beside a canal. Mr Shatford said: "We are looking for a pointed instrument, a sharpened instrument - it could be a knife - or other instrument approximately four inches in length." The murder has shocked local residents. Liz Emtage, 30, a potter from Bow, east London, said: "It's shocking to think that this has happened on my route to work at a time when the park is well used and you would hope it's safe."