Two more men will appear before Reading magistrates today charged with the murder of 16-year-old Mary-Ann Leneghan following her abduction with an 18-year-old girlfriend from a car park in the town 10 days ago.Adrian Thomas, 19, of south-east London and Indrit Krasniqi, 18, of west London, are also charged with the kidnap and attempted murder of Mary-Ann's friend, who is seriously ill in hospital and cannot be named for legal reasons. Jamaile Morally, 21, of Balham, south-west London, faces the same charges of murder, kidnap and attempted murder and an additional charge of raping the 18-year-old. After appearing on Saturday at Reading magistrates court Mr Morally was taken to the Royal Berkshire hospital to be treated for "self-inflicted" injuries sustained in the court's holding cell, said Thames Valley police. He is now being held at Bullingdon prison and will remain in custody until his appearance at Reading crown court on Thursday. Another man was arrested in south London last night. Mary-Ann and her friend were abducted from the car park at the disused Wallingford Arms pub in Reading on the night of May 6. They were taken to a nearby guesthouse where it is alleged they were sexually assaulted for hours by a gang of up to six men before being dumped at Prospect Park, Reading. Mary-Ann died from a stab wound to the neck. Her friend survived being shot in the head. Both were left for dead in the park but the 18-year-old regained consciousness and managed to flag down a passing motorist. Two women and a man, also arrested in connection with the killing, were released on Saturday on police bail. Last night detectives were continuing to question another man after his detention was extended for 24 hours. Another man was arrested in connection with the murder in south London, police said last night. Detective Superintendent Mark Warwick, who is heading the inquiry, said it was not too late for people to come forward. "There are people in the community that have information that could be valuable to us," he said.