Gitta Sereny, the writer and journalist, who has died aged 91, spent her adult life wrestling with the huge moral question of how to explain evil. She did it primarily through an extraordinarily intense process of research and writing about the twin themes of the evils of the Third Reich, on which she became a formidable expert, and of deeply troubled children, including the child-murderer Mary Bell. She returned repeatedly to her subject, in biographies of Franz Stangl, commandant of the Treblinka death camp, of Hitler's architect and close companion Albert Speer, and of Bell, and in writings on the boy murderers of the toddler Jamie Bulger – pursuing her subjects indefatigably, with a passion to understand and an intense moral commitment.Gitta attributed her fascination with evil to her own experiences of Nazism as a child of central Europe in the early 20th century. Hers was not a happy childhood. She was born in Vienna, the daughter of a beautiful Austrian actress, whom she later described as "without moral opinions", and a wealthy Hungarian landowner. Her father, Gyula, died when she was a child; her elder brother left home at 18 and disappeared from her life; Gitta herself was sent to Stonar House boarding school in Sandwich, Kent, an experience she remembered with some affection.In 1934, while changing trains in Nuremberg on a journey home from school, she witnessed the Nuremberg Rally and was profoundly moved by the beauty of the spectacle, joining in the crowd's ecstatic cheering. These favourable impressions of the Nazis survived both a reading of Mein Kampf and the 1938 Anschluss, when Hitler annexed a quiescent Austria. The grim realities of Nazism, however, soon began to affect her life in Vienna where she was, by then, a drama student.She later described seeing a Jewish doctor she knew well being forced to clean pavements with a toothbrush; the terror became more personal after her mother, Margit, with whom Gitta had a poor relationship, became engaged to Ludwig von Mises, the Jewish economist. Von Mises had left Austria for Switzerland, but a German friend tipped Margit off that the authorities planned to arrest her to oblige him to return. Margit promptly fled to Switzerland with her daughter.In Switzerland, Gitta was sent to a finishing school. Never accommodating to her mother's plans, she promptly absconded, first to London then to Paris. Margit and von Mises moved to the US, where von Mises was later to become one of the inspirations for the libertarian politics and market economics of the Reagan era. Gitta, eventually, was also obliged to flee, first across the Pyrenees to Spain, then on the US.She returned to Paris four months after the war ended, to join the UN Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, working with orphans in a Europe ravaged by Hitler's wars. The framework of what was to be her life's work – the exploration of childhood trauma and the nature of evil – was in place. It was in postwar Paris, in 1948, that she met and married the photographer Don Honeyman, with whom she was to have a son and a daughter. Don, who died last year, was to prove a good humoured and profoundly supportive companion who accompanied Gitta through the long and painstaking research that became a hallmark of her work.The couple moved to London where Gitta wrote a novel, The Medallion, published in 1957, but it was in her work as a journalist that she found her direction. In 1968 she covered the trial of Mary Bell, who was charged, aged 11, along with a 13-year-old companion, with the murder of two children. The companion, who sobbed throughout, was acquitted; Bell remained strangely calm and was convicted of manslaughter. The crimes, her youth and her strange detachment made her a symbol of evil in the public mind. Gitta's book The Case of Mary Bell (1972), explored both Bell's appalling childhood as an explanation for her behaviour and a system of justice that allowed a disturbed and uncomprehending child to be tried in an adult court.Gitta believed that all children were born good and that evil, therefore, ought to be intelligible through their experiences in childhood. Her hallmark technique consisted of extensive and meticulous research, combined with long hours of non-judgmental but forensic interviewing that owed much to the techniques of psychoanalysis: the facts always mattered, but the goal was to reveal the motivation. It was a technique that had its critics in those who felt she grew too close to her subjects.She also reported on the trials in Germany of Third Reich functionaries, including concentration camp staff. In 1967, Stangl, the former commandant of the Sobibor and Treblinka death camps, was discovered in Brazil and returned to Germany. In 1970, he was found guilty of the murder of 900,000 people. He died six months later, but in the time between his conviction and death Gitta had the opportunity to interview him extensively, to probe how an ordinary man came to commit such extraordinary acts and, equally important, how he subsequently survived his own conscience. She contended that it was his – slight – acknowledgment to her of his guilt that precipitated his death, 70 hours later.Her book on Stangl, Into That Darkness (1974), remains one of the best books on the Third Reich and established Gitta's reputation as an authority on the history of the period. Though she said later that she loathed Stangl and that she was glad he had died, she also insisted that he was not evil. Her relationship with Speer, Hitler's architect, armaments minister and close companion, was more complex.Speer was tried at Nuremberg and sentenced to long years in Spandau prison. Released in 1966, he had published two books when he contacted Gitta in 1977 to support an article she had written, challenging the rightwing historian David Irving's contention that Hitler was ignorant of the Nazi extermination of the Jews. Gitta was to spend 11 years researching and interviewing Speer, a man whom she confessed to liking and who, she insisted, had found a moral redemption. Though criticised by some reviewers for what they saw as an indulgence of her subject, the resulting book, Albert Speer, His Battle With Truth (1995), later dramatised by David Edgar at the National Theatre, repeatedly challenges Speer's contention that he too was ignorant of the fate of the Jews under the regime he had served so faithfully.Redemption was a theme that recurred in her most controversial book, Cries Unheard (1998), in which she returned to the subject of Bell, by then released from prison, married with a young daughter, and living under an assumed name. The claim that Gitta had paid Bell a substantial sum for her collaboration generated a tabloid storm that resulted in the exposure of Bell's new identity. Gitta herself was pilloried in the tabloid press, but remained unrepentant. Bell, she said, was a different person as an adult, and her crimes could be explained by her appalling childhood.Gitta was frequently embattled, but rarely daunted. She fought a 20-year battle with Irving and was often targeted with fascist hate mail. Despite the grim nature of her subjects, Gitta was a warm and generous friend with a ready sense of humour, and she and Honeyman entertained frequently at their home in Chelsea, London. Despite her relentless psychological exploration of her subjects, she resisted all invitations to write her own autobiography, but in her late 70s she published a partial memoir in The German Trauma: Experiences and Reflections 1938-2001 (2001). She was appointed honorary CBE in 2003, for services to journalism.She is survived by her son, Christopher, her daughter, Mandy, two grandchildren and one great-grandchild. • Gitta Sereny, writer and journalist, born 13 March 1921; died 14 June 2012