A woman who possessed a deep hatred for her wealthy second husband plotted to murder him because she wanted his money but did not want to divorce him, a court heard yesterday.Lynda Iddon, 56, conspired with her son Lee Shergold, 31, to have her husband of 20 years murdered so that she would inherit his money, Preston crown court was told. Her own funds were dwindling, partly because of her son's profligate spending. But in a "bitter blow" it later emerged that Mr Iddon had left all his money to his daughter Gemma, leaving his wife and her son with nothing. Peter Wright, prosecuting, told the jury: "Lynda Iddon had been divorced before and she was not prepared to undergo such an experience again. Lynda Iddon had a far swifter and more permanent removal of Kenneth Iddon from her life in mind." He said she had "high hopes" of profiting from his death. Mr Iddon, a businessman, died after he left his home in Ormskirk, Lancashire, in his BMW in February 2004. He had gone to Deanwood golf club in Upholland for his usual Sunday evening game of snooker. When he returned home later that evening he was attacked on his driveway by at least one man who struck him with extremely heavy blows, fracturing his skull. He was then dragged into his garage, where he was repeatedly stabbed. "At the end of this attack, he had his throat slit and must have died moments later," Mr Wright said. "This was no random killing. This was a carefully executed plan designed to bring about the death of Kenneth Iddon." He said Mr Shergold had previously lived with his mother and stepfather. He had for years nursed a "burning sense of grievance" and had "planned to kill his stepfather". With his mother, he recruited three other men to take part in the alleged murder plot. Mr Shergold's former work colleague, Christopher Pye, 33, was to be rewarded with money, the court heard. Another man, John Climo, Mr Pye's brother-in-law, was an opportunist. The court heard that before the killing, he was overheard saying: "If this job pays off, we will all be going to Disneyland." A third man, Rodney Bishop, 38, lived in a flat owned by Mr Iddon in Bootle, Merseyside, but did not get on with his landlord. It is alleged that he owed rent and had previously threatened Mr Iddon. "These five were thrown together by chance and circumstance, yet they were united in the events of the late evening of February 1 2004 in a common cause, namely the death of Kenneth Iddon," Mr Wright said. "They were not people that would mourn his passing. On the contrary, they would celebrate it." The prosecution could not say precisely who killed Mr Iddon, but said that all the defendants had a role to play and were involved in his murder. Mr Shergold "organised and counselled from afar," while Mr Climo and Mr Pye were in close proximity to the murder scene. Forensic evidence and the motive linked Mr Bishop to the murder, the prosecution claims. All five of the defendants deny murder. Another defendant, Terri Davies, 22, from Bootle, is accused of perverting the course of justice by providing a false alibi for Mr Bishop, her boyfriend. Mr Iddon was found in his garage the next day. His wife had been at home on the night of the attack but claimed not to have heard anything. It is alleged that she discussed the plot to kill her husband at least two years before his death. Witnesses heard screaming and cries as Mr Iddon pleaded for his life with his killer, the court heard. A neighbour also heard screaming, which then stopped, and noted the local church clock chiming midnight. Mr Iddon suffered 35 head injuries in the attack. A postmortem examination found the cause of death to be a severed carotid artery as his throat was slit. The jury was shown photographs of the victim and the murder scene, and the trial was halted as one of the jurors was overcome with tears. The case continues today.