The following apology was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday 27 September 2009We said that Judge Khan's cleaner had tried to blackmail him. In fact, she was never convicted of blackmailing Judge Khan. She appealed against her conviction for blackmail (involving a Judge J) and theft (involving Judge Khan). All charges were dropped and therefore she was cleared on both counts. Apologies. A Brazilian cleaner who claimed to have been involved in a love triangle with two immigration court judges was today found guilty of blackmailing one of them.Roselane Driza, 37, was convicted of blackmailing a female judge, named in court documents as J, but cleared of blackmailing Mohammed Ilyas Khan, a former lover of both herself and J.She was also found guilty of stealing two homemade sex videos from Mr Khan, which allegedly depicted J snorting cocaine and Mr Khan having sex with J and another woman.The two judges alleged that Driza had threatened to send the two tapes to the lord chancellor, Lord Falconer, if they did not pay her £20,000.Driza claimed to have had an affair with Mr Khan and done cleaning work for both him and J, but said she never told the immigration judges that she was in Britain illegally."I am here in this court. I am not British. I have nothing to answer for. The world may think I am guilty. I have nothing to hide and God knows I am not guilty," she said.The case, the first blackmail trial to be heard at the Old Bailey in years, has mesmerised court reporters over the past week.The testimony in court has presented a real-life cross between the passionate melodramas of Brazilian soap operas and the lurid sex romps of British tabloids.Wearing a succession of figure-enhancing outfits and borrowing the mannerisms of a screen diva, Driza presented testimony featuring cocaine-fuelled sex videos, illegal immigrants, racial harassment, love triangles and contract killers.Outside the court she by turns posed for photographers and pretended to flee from them. But after the verdict she was taken crying to the cells.J and Mr Khan were former lovers who had remained friends. After J sacked her from her cleaning job, Driza started an affair with Mr Khan and moved in with him. The affair came to an end when J caught Driza and Mr Khan in bed together.J told the court that she had sacked Driza for being unreliable and for prying into her private life. Driza, for her part, claimed that the female judge had called her a "Brazilian bitch" and that she feared J would hire a contract killer to murder her.Driza claimed she had not wanted to blackmail the couple, but had wanted an explanation from J about why she was sacked. She said she was about to return the videotapes to Mr Khan when she was arrested.Mr Khan, referred to as I during the trial, was named today when an order barring the publication of victims in blackmail trials was lifted after Driza was cleared of the blackmail charges against him.A spokesman for the Department for Constitutional Affairs said the department would consider disciplinary action against the two judges."The lord chancellor and the lord chief justice strongly believe that the public must have confidence in judges and take any allegations against them very seriously," the spokesman said.David Markham, prosecuting, told the jury that they did not need to sympathise with the behaviour of Mr Khan and J to find Driza guilty."She saw an opportunity to make money by threatening two people who were in sensitive positions, threatening them about their private lives," he said. "It needs little emphasis that blackmail develops and thrives where there is human vulnerability and weakness. It does not flourish among angels and saints."It takes root where flesh and blood people - including judges - decidedly fall from grace and err."This allegation is not an appeal for sympathy for J and I. Each of them, you may think, got themselves into the very uncomfortable situations with the defendant."Each, with more care, might have avoided more lurid scenarios ... Each of them became prey to blackmail."He told the court that Mr Khan had made a fool of himself over Driza. He had sent her an email describing her as "chilli hot stuff".She was remanded in custody pending sentencing on October 20. The Recorder of London, Judge Peter Beaumont, said she faced a "substantial custodial sentence" but asked for reports on her family and community links before making a decision.It was also revealed today that Driza had been married to a convicted murderer still wanted by British police over a 1999 killing.The Albanian man, known under the assumed name Sokol Drenova, had arrived in Britain claiming to be a Kosovan refugee and is currently serving a 20-year sentence in Italy for the murder of a fellow Albanian.Driza married him seven months after they met in a nightclub but separated from him shortly after the registry office ceremony when she discovered he had lied to her about his background.