Two robbers were shot dead today when police confronted an armed gang during a bank raid in Hampshire, police said.The shooting happened at around 10.05am while police were staking out the HSBC bank on Bournemouth Road, Chandlers Ford, Eastleigh.One man died at the scene, while a second was taken to hospital where he was pronounced dead at midday, according to the Metropolitan police.There are reports that a third man fled the scene but this has not been confirmed by the police.The gang is believed to have been targeting a security van outside the bank. No officers or members of the public were injured in the incident.The Independent Police Complaints Commission is investigating the operation, which was mounted by the Metropolitan police's flying squad and specialist firearms unit in conjunction with Hampshire police. The IPCC said the two men were shot by Metropolitan police officers.The flying squad specialises in tackling armed robbers and sometimes lies in wait for gangs as a result of tipoffs.Jamie Owens, 16, who lives above the bank, said he was woken by gunfire and saw two men, one of mixed race and the other white, lying in the road. He said his neighbours told him they saw a third man escaping from the scene. They told him they witnessed a security van pull up to the bank and the robbers put a gun to one of the guard's heads demanding money. At this point the robbers were shot by the police. Mr Owen said: "I heard two gunshots. I thought nothing of them. I thought it was just a car backfiring, then I heard a woman screaming, heard a lot of commotion and I saw the two men lying on the floor. "Their clothes were stripped off them with tape on their chests as they tried to resuscitate them, but one wasn't moving at all. "There were 25 to 30 undercover police officers with 'Metropolitan Police' across their caps with big machine guns. "They were shouting at people that they can't go home, they must leave the area. I saw a lot of police around. I saw a helicopter landing in the street. "My friends also said that they saw a third man running from the scene and the police said that he was still on the run."A witness, Rob Holman, 41, from Chandlers Ford, who was driving past the bank, told the Southern Daily Echo: "I heard a bang but then I heard two or three more and then immediately there were two cars filled with armed police rushing past."It was a long time before uniformed police arrived but there were so many armed police here they must have had a tipoff."An employee at Mann & Co estate agents, a few yards from where the shooting happened, said: "The police must have been tipped off. One customer told us they saw police officers running out of the public toilets just near to the bank and then they heard the shots."A police officer came in to talk to us and suggested one of the robbers had got away. I saw the body on the floor afterwards but it had been covered."This is out of the ordinary for sleepy Chandlers Ford so we are all a bit shook up."Melanie Chase, who lives above the bank, said: "I was in the bath when I heard someone shouting 'Get down, Get down' and then I heard three shots. I looked out the window and saw blood everywhere on the floor. It was horrible."Lynn Ward, who works at the Alexander Keen estate agent next to the HSBC bank, said: "When I looked out of the window I saw a security van and two people on the floor with armed police stood over them."It was chaos and there was lots of shouting and screaming. It was then I realised it must have been gunshots. We immediately locked the doors and hid in the back. At the moment the whole precinct has been closed and nobody can get in or out."Chandlers Ford is a rural town and you certainly do not expect this kind of thing to happen. We are all very shocked but the police have come in and reassured us there is nothing to worry about now."A spokesman for HSBC said: "We can confirm that no customers or staff have been hurt in this incident. We are obviously very grateful because this violent incident appears to have had the potential to have been much worse."The IPCC said its investigators were attending the scene.