The evening after I returned from Paris, Saturday 14 November, my local Domino’s pizza was having one of the busiest nights of the year so far. “It’s the terrorist attacks in Paris,” said the man on the phone. “Everyone is staying in and ordering takeaway.”This did not, at the time, tally with what my colleague Zoe Williams referred to as the “clamorous bravado” to show that you were fashionably not afraid and would carry on as normal. It’s all very well for Londoners to imply that they are channelling the blitz spirit; it’s another thing entirely to reject the temptation to hunker down with a stuffed crust and bravely take to the streets.Fear of terrorism must be kept in proportion | Richard English In fact, London has felt like a very jumpy city since mid-November, and I have no doubt that the Leytonstone attacks on Friday will add to this feeling. Friends and colleagues speak of a lurking paranoia, of panic attacks over abandoned suitcases and horrific nightmares, while the headlines scream of the possibility of dirty bombs and extra armed police. Commander Richard Walton, who leads the Met’s counter-terrorism command, said, following the Leytonstone attack: “I would continue to urge the public to remain calm, but alert and vigilant.”It’s easier said than done, this keep calm and carry on business. I wonder if we need to get away from this idea that you can control fear, and that there is a kind of moral superiority to not feeling frightened. I’m not saying that we should all run around like headless chickens, but let’s at least admit that many of us are feeling anxious, paranoid, suspicious, hypervigilant and generally freaked out.Since the attacks in Paris, I have heard older people speak of the blitz and the IRA bombings, and how they simply went about their business, got on as normal. I wonder how much of this is a result of the sense of security offered by hindsight, of looking back and thinking: “I was fine.” Which makes me grateful for my grandmother, who told me that being bombed in Hartlepool during the second world war was terrifying and traumatising, and the friend who got caught up in 7/7 and who confessed how, a few days later, she hit the floor when she heard a loud bang. There’s a solidarity that comes from saying “I’m scared too” that I find absent in the posturing of the stiff upper lip.At the very best, fear can be somewhat managed, but it is a primitive, fight-or-flight impulse that kicks in when you feel your life is in danger (whether rationally, because of a terrorist with a gun, or irrationally, because of a rucksack left unclaimed for only a minute). When experiencing such emotions, human beings can respond differently. Some will see a ranting man waving a knife on the tube and will grab their children and run, screaming. Others will film it on their phones or tell him, “You ain’t no Muslim, bruv.” No one reaction is more virtuous than the other. You deal with a threat to your life in a way that is almost entirely involuntary.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  London knife attack bystander shouts: ‘You ain’t no Muslim, bruv’Public defiance, such as with the hashtags #jesuisenterrace and #youaintnomuslimbruv, can be inspiring because, in the aftermath of a traumatic experience, it refuses to resort to the kneejerk response of hate and intolerance. It is more powerful to say, “I am frightened, but I will not allow that to make me cruel” than it is to loftily claim immunity.#YouAintNoMuslimBruv: the voice of defiant unity | Remona Aly Anyone who knows anything about trauma knows that the temptation, when scared, is to lash out like a wounded animal. Just as François Hollande’s war rhetoric and immediate ordering of airstrikes struck me as the actions of a frightened man, so does the rise in Islamophobia in this country, and, in France, the unsurprising but nonetheless dispiriting success of the Front National in the regional elections. I doubt many of the people who voted FN would admit that the temptation they feel towards fascism in some ways comes from a place of fear, but this is patently the case. “Close the borders, deport the Muslims, problem solved,” they tell themselves, because their repressed fear has rendered them angry and intolerant.Admitting to the fear many of us will be feeling is not allowing the terrorists to win – it is a crucial part of showing our humanity. The morning after the Paris attacks the city seemed silent but stoic. It felt like a Sunday. People walked in small groups along the banks of the Seine. Some people claimed not to be frightened (a banner saying “Même pas peur” hung at the Place de la République) but it was clear that most people were, as many of us in London are too. So let’s be honest about it in a way that our politicians – with their armoured vehicles and their security staff – will never be. Because if you fail to admit to fear, it manifests itself in strange, hateful ways. And we are better than that.Comments for this article have been temporarily disabled for legal reasons, and will be republished shortly.