Police are searching for two men who took a 14-year-old schoolboy to hospital after he had been shot in the chest.The pair dropped the teenager off in a minicab at Northwick Park hospital, in north-west London, but left before police arrived. Last night detectives said the youngster, who was shot after a scuffle outside a parade of shops in west London, was in a stable condition and appealed for the men to come forward."We are very keen to speak to the two men who took the youth to hospital as they may have vital information to assist the investigation," said a spokesman for the Metropolitan police.The shooting happened between 1pm and 2pm on Tuesday in Greenford, near Wembley. Witnesses said it followed a disturbance involving a group of teenagers outside a laundrette."There was some kind of argument outside," a local newsagent said. "I couldn't see what was happening but there was loads of screaming and shouting and then some kids running away down the street. I didn't think much of it at the time. We don't really have problems with gangs or violence or anything like that so this is very shocking. It makes you feel worried for your own family if that kind of thing can happen on a quiet street like this."Yesterday a pensioner who was in a nearby bookmakers at the time of the attack said he heard "a pop like a pistol" from the group sometime after 1pm."They looked like they were just mucking about and playfighting, but then it got more serious and someone said it was all kicking off so the staff locked the doors to stop them coming inside the shop. "I heard a pop a bit like a starting pistol but I didn't really know what was going on. I was shocked when I heard that such a young lad had been shot." The inquiry is being led by officers from the Metropolitan police's Trident unit, which investigates violence in the black community, and yesterday officers were conducting house-to-house inquiries.Detectives said they were still waiting to speak to the youngster, who is from Wembley and has been transferred to a hospital in central London.The latest attack comes amid growing concern about the level of violence involving teenagers in the UK. There were 66 teenage murders last year, mainly knife attacks. London had 30 murders; there were six in Scotland, five in Greater Manchester and four in Merseyside. Last week the Conservatives released figures showing the number of fatal stabbings in England and Wales has reached an all-time high over the last 12 months, despite a drive by the government and police to reduce attacks.The statistics, released under the Freedom of Information Act, revealed that an average of five people a week were killed with a knife or sharp instrument. In London the number of knife fatalities last year jumped to 86 - a rise of one quarter on the figure for 2007.