Two mothers jailed for drug offences lost a high court case yesterday to keep their babies with them in prison beyond the official cut-off age of 18 months. Lord Woolf, the lord chief justice, called the issues raised "extremely sensitive" but said the growing numbers of mothers involved in the drugs trade could not expect "too lenient" treatment. Appeals by the two, whose daughters are both nearly two, are expected to be expedited by the court of appeal and heard this month. Lawyers for the women, named as P and Q to protect the identities of their children, argued that the policy that babies must leave the prison at 18 months breached the mothers' right to respect for private and family life under the Human Rights Act. Lord Woolf and Mr Justice Lightman rejected their claim. Lord Woolf said that while the service "should have fully in mind the importance of family ties and welfare considera tions, it is not required to allow them to dominate its decision". Lord Woolf said one explanation for the "rapid rise" in the number of women in prison was the part they were playing in the illegal drug trade. The courts could not take "too lenient" an approach because that would result in those controlling the drug trade "making even greater use than they do already of expectant mothers and mothers with young children in the hope that they will be dealt with leniently if detected". Prisoner P, serving an eight year sentence in Styal prison in Cheshire, was five months pregnant when she acted as a mule smuggling cocaine into Britain - a role in which drug importers like to employ pregnant women. The judges ruled that the home secretary, Jack Straw, and the service had "adopted a reasonable balance" in both cases, and the courts should not intervene. Any appeals should be heard as a matter of urgency, he said. "The longer the babies remain with their mothers the more difficult it is to separate them". Foster parents have been found for P's daughter, born in July 1999, a month after she began her sentence. The foster mother has visited P and her baby several times, but moves to take the baby in January were postponed pending the court case. P, aged 32, is from Jamaica, where her three older children are being looked after. She becomes eligible for parole in March 2003 and faces deportation on release. She said she was coerced into bringing in the drugs, a defence rejected at her trial. Prisoner Q, from Brixton in south London, is serving five years at Askham Grange, York, after being convicted in March last year of conspiracy to supply cannabis. Her daughter was born in July 1999 while she was on bail and will be three when Q becomes eligible for parole in July 2002. She had hoped to be part of a pilot project for children to remain with mothers after 18 months, but the project was shelved. P's solicitors, Hickman Rose, said she would be appealing against "this very disturbing judgment".