  Wormwood Scrubs. Photograph: Graham Turner for the GuardianThe news that BBC's Question Time is to be broadcast from HMP Wormwood Scrubs next week is to be welcomed. The BBC says the panel will include justice secretary Ken Clarke and his New Labour predecessor Jack Straw and that 10 prisoners will be in the audience, vetted by prison staff and the BBC.But I do have reservations. At the time of writing the BBC says it cannot yet announce any more names for the panel. I hope it will not round up a couple of the usual suspects, a prison reformer here, a hardliner there. (Though in Straw, they have a politician who, in office, managed to make Michael Howard look distinctly liberal.) The reformers I know are all good people, but they have been preaching the same message for decades and getting nowhere. We need a little more anger to enter the debate and I doubt we will get it.And why 10 prisoners? If the programme came from a university, would they only allow that number of students in? The Scrubs houses nearly 1,300 inmates and this smacks of over-sanitisation. What are they afraid of? That prisoners may have opinions? Perish the thought.Actually, in some prisons I served time in, we used to have organised debates and I swear the standard of argument and behaviour would have put the House of Commons to shame. Prisoners are not a breed, a tribe, they are simply people who happen to be in prison.In any case, this is not the first time television cameras have gone behind bars.Of late the prison service has allowed them into the Scrubs, Holloway and more recently, Strangeways, Manchester. And while the resulting documentaries have allowed the public a glimpse of life behind the walls, none of them have shown any examples of bad behaviour by prison staff.Yet you ask any prisoner, or former prisoner, what was the worst aspect of their sentence and, a pound to a penny, they will tell you it was bad attitude and behaviour by staff.Of course, you may say the service would never allow the public to see prison officers as anything other than kind and caring custodians. (And many are.) But back in 1980, they allowed cameras into a prison for the first time, into Strangeways. The programme maker, Rex Bloomstein, was given unprecedented time and access to operate a "fly on the wall" method and over time staff forgot the cameras were rolling as they went about their business. The result? They behaved badly because, at that time and in that place, they did not know any other way of behaving. The service learned the lesson and become far more media savvy since.But back to Question Time from "inside". I hope I am wrong, I hope we get a vigorous and rational debate next Thursday and, repeat, I am glad the cameras are going behind bars. My hope is the prison service will extend media access to the prison system, to areas which are currently no-go.If I were in the audience next week, I would pose two questions to the panel: why are journalists repeatedly denied access to prisoners claiming to be victims of a miscarriage of justice, despite a law lords ruling such access be allowed? And finally, the Scrubs, like all prisons, has a segregation unit, a prison within a prison. Virtually all the reports I receive about abuse by staff emanate from these units. I am currently investigating one such report, which resulted in devastating injuries to a prisoner. Thus far, my inquiries have been stonewalled and my chances of meeting the prisoner to try and ascertain the truth are zero. My second question? What do they have to hide.