Antisocial behaviour orders are failing to combat yobbish behaviour, critics claimed last night as new figures revealed a huge increase in the number of issued in the past year.A total of 768 Asbos were handed out in England and Wales in the last three months of last year - up 116% on the same period in 2003.A total of 4,649 have been issued since their introduction in 1999, of which 2,057 have applied to children aged 10 to 17. Government statistics released yesterday did not disclose how many orders have been breached. But figures published in March showed the proportion of those who broke the terms of their Asbos had risen to more than two in five. Hazel Blears, the policing minister, insisted Asbos were making a "real difference to people's lives" by helping restore community confidence as she announced new witness protection measures for Asbo cases. But David Davis, the shadow home secretary, castigated the orders as a "sticking plaster over an amputation" as far as crime and disorder were concerned. Mark Oaten, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, also criticised Asbos, saying they failed to tackle the root causes of yob culture and cut reoffending. "Record numbers of Asbos do not mean the streets are safer," he said. "Too often, an Asbo is seen as a badge of honour, not a real solution to offensive behaviour. Victims of crime and antisocial behaviour deserve policies which offer long-term solutions, not quick fixes." In the past week, a father of five, Terry Barrett, 56, from Saltash, Cornwall, died after an incident in which teenagers who allegedly pelted his home with eggs, and Mugilan Sutherman, a 43-year-old father of three from Rochdale, Greater Manchester, was beaten to death after allegedly refusing a group of youths a light for cigarettes. Greater Manchester has the highest number of Asbos at 710, followed by London, 448; West Yorkshire, 361; and West Midlands, 342. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation officers' union, Napo, expressed concern that Asbos were being misused in many cases against mentally ill people, autistic children, beggars and prostitutes. Mr Fletcher said: "Some local authorities are using the powers to drive off the streets anybody whose behaviour is eccentric, undesirable or a nuisance. "This is deeply worrying and a sign of an increasing intolerance of individuals who are different." Breaching an Asbo can lead to five years in jail or a fine of up to £5,000. From today, vulnerable witnesses in Asbo cases will be allowed to testify from behind screens or via video link, while automatic reporting restrictions will be lifted to enable the media to give details of those who have breached orders. However, the civil rights organisation Liberty voiced reservations about these measures. A spokesman said: "It is our experience that the naming and shaming of people issued with antisocial behaviour orders is counter-productive and can in some circumstances lead to vigilantism." The spokesman added: "The need to protect witnesses from intimidation is a real concern, but it should not be used to allow hearsay evidence against people against whom a case is being sought."