A false wall in a sex shop could help to solve a 20-year-old murder mystery, police believe. The wooden wall, put in place after the murder of Sandra Phillips in 1985, may have preserved crucial evidence left by her killer.New scientific processes could identify traces of DNA left by the killer on the original wall, South Wales police say. They are also seeking three key witnesses who could help to bring the killer to justice. Twenty years ago today, Phillips, 38, of Swansea, south Wales, was beaten, strangled and sexually assaulted at the sex shop she managed. Police found her body, which had been doused in petrol, in a pool of blood inside the locked shop in Dillwyn Street. Brothers Paul and Wayne Darvell were arrested soon afterwards and jailed for life after being found guilty of the killing. But they were freed seven years later when the court of appeal quashed their convictions and each received £80,000 compensation for the time they spent in jail. In March this year Paul Darvell was found dead at his home in Neath, south Wales. Police do not believe that the death was suspicious. The police yesterday vowed to be "remorseless" in their pursuit of the killer of the mother of four. Detective Superintendent Simon Clarke, heading a new investigation, said a wall at the sex shop where the murder took place would be looked at closely again to see whether it could provide crucial DNA evidence. He said: "It is possible that the murderer's DNA is still on that wall." He said careful sifting of hundreds of boxes of evidence gathered during the original inquiry had prompted the team to hunt for three important who might hold crucial information about the crime. Officers involved in the original investigation never followed up evidence concerning the three individuals, all men, and they did not figure in the original inquiry in any way. Mr Clarke said: "There may be a good reason why these persons have not come forward - whether they were in relationships and may have found it embarrassing, or for other personal reasons." He also suggested that the murderer may have felt the need to confide in someone about his crime. "This must be a great weight on this person and I think that he would have unburdened himself to some other person. "If that is the case, I would ask them to examine their consciences, think of the family of the victim and come forward with what they know."