A man has been stabbed to death and two others were wounded in an attack involving a knife and an axe in a peaceful village in Devon, police have said.Two men were arrested on suspicion of murder after the 27-year-old victim, who was seriously injured on Thursday morning at the King’s Arms in Tamerton Foliot, was pronounced dead on arrival at Derriford hospital.The two men who received knife wounds in the attack were also treated at Derriford hospital.The two men arrested, aged 20 and 21, are both from Plymouth and have been detained at Charles Cross police station in the city.Officers were called to a “major disturbance” at the pub at around 1.30am, with numerous callers reporting a man in possession of a knife and an axe. Further calls of disorder were later made to police by members of what locals have described as a “close community”.An axe was found at the murder scene but police have asked local residents to join the search for the knife thought to have been used in the attack.“We are asking local residents to keep an eye out for anything discarded in their bins or gardens that seems suspicious and to call police if anything is found,” said a spokesman for Devon and Cornwall police.The local newspaper, the Western Morning News, reported one local resident, who came home after 2am to see the police activity, as saying: “The road was all blocked. We had to walk part of the way home. We have heard it was a stabbing on the green. This is not the sort of stuff you expect in Tamerton.”Another resident was reported as saying: “I’ve lived here for 44 years, and things like this don’t happen. We have a very good relationship with the police here and it will have a big impact on the community.”The paper quoted another local man as adding: “The police stopped us at each point on the way back into the village. By the time we had come back the incident was over. I was quite glad we weren’t out in the village. It’s a very close community and everyone says hello to each other and stops to chat. It’s a big shock.”Det Supt Jim Colwell said: “We are appealing for anyone who witnessed the incident or who was in the Tamerton Foliot area between 1am and 2am this morning to contact the police.“We have established a cordon at Station Road to assist with scene investigation and our officers will be active in the area throughout the day conducting inquiries.“Please speak to us, call us on 101 or contact Crimestoppers anonymously if you have any information that could help us with our inquiries.”