They try hard, English towns of a certain size, to sell themselves. Sometimes too hard. If you go by train from London to Gloucester you are likely to change at Swindon, where the station features an attempt to cash in on the fact that author Jasper Fforde has written some books about the town: a pavement mural, bright for maybe one half-morning, now long muddied and scuffed and pointless. Hit Gloucester, eventually, and it's boasting about the fact that a bit of Harry Potter was filmed in the cathedral, and going on about a Roman excavation in the middle of the shopping mall, a lump of unremarkable old wall under some dirty glass ('this viewing window was provided by the Boots Company...') into which seagull feathers, parking tickets and cigarette butts have somehow insinuated themselves down the years.Yet Gloucester shouts paradoxically loudly, to me, this day, about the one thing it never mentions, will never mention, hopes against hope would simply be gone forever, and it's just three minutes away. Walk past the ruins, down Eastgate, cut down the side of Sloane's bar, down the back of Argos and the Mecca Bingo. Wrap your coat a little tighter as you cross the Hampden Way car park and skirt the Shopmobility stand, where 35 tattered electric buggies huddle against a feral wind, and you are, suddenly, in Cromwell Street. Right there, beside the Seventh Day Adventist Church, built in 1930, rebuilt in the Seventies to show how impressively ugly modern redbrick could be, there is nothing. The absence yells. There is, instead, a little Tarmac walkway, through to an alley and another car park. The walkway has 16 cast-iron black bollards, unappealing pyracantha bushes down the sides, a little blue sign warning against drinking in public, and a couple of battered empty cans of Stella. The walkway slopes, gently, from front to back, and takes about 12 seconds to stroll through. Underneath it, still, lies part of what was the cellar in the house that once sat here, at 25 Cromwell Street, and under this former cellar are five concrete cores, filled in after police had removed, from five holes, five sets of bones. The bones lay in a black ooze or gloop, which coloured the red sand around them, and had been formed by the decaying of organic matter. None of the sets of bones formed a full skeleton: Fred West would always take a kneecap, or finger joints, as a keepsake. The bones had been buried vertically, down a hole rather than in a shallow grave: the victims were beheaded, and the limbs severed with a spade, and these were pushed down the sides of the hole after the torsos. Not a plaque, not a hint, let alone a memorial garden. A bit of concrete, and lousy green shrubs, and wet litter, and a nasty little wind sighing more loudly through the walkway as darkness falls. 'Not a very nice site, no,' comes the quiet agreement from the church's pastor, Stefan Burton-Schnüll, as I gaze around at the trees growing crisp-bags and the mud morphing into dog-shit; 'but it was decided not to commemorate it in any way, out of respect for the victims.' Rose West's lawyer, Leo Goatley, concurs. There is, he says, 'something of an eerie silence about the footpath'. Still, the house is gone. As the gym at Dunblane primary school was demolished, as 5 College Close, Soham, is being demolished, as the whole of Rillington Place in Notting Hill - where John Christie used the femur of one of his six victims to prop up the outside fence at number 10 - was excised from the map of London. The house in Cromwell Street is gone, demolished in October 1996, and Fred's gone, thank God, topped himself on New Year's Day in 1995 if you remember, and Rose is all but gone, up in chokey in Durham forever, and all their children are gone, safer, screwed-up but safer, though we'll never know how many Fred fathered, and he claimed 42. And 12 women and children are definitely gone, forever, and two of their unborn babies, and we'll never know, again, how many more, simply listed as 'missing' during the Sixties and Seventies. We'll never know, and Gloucester will never want to know: according to Goatley, 'Gloucester's been as keen to bury Fred West as Fred was to bury his victims.' In the town's bookshops, in the true crime sections of every one of the town's bookshops, there is a noticeable absence of any works on West: not Howard Sounes's increasingly incredulous journalistic account, Fred and Rose; not Gordon Burn's painfully magisterial Happy Like Murderers. Even the sign's long gone, the childish scroll wrought in whitewashed iron, '25 Cromwell Street', taken away years ago along with another 1,300 items to be destroyed at RAF Quedgeley, mainly to foil souvenir hunters. The phone number is no more. All gone. At least, I assume the old phone number is no more. Just to be on the safe side, I dial it from back in London. There is something of a shock when it begins to ring. It's fine; it's fine; the number's just been transferred to a local firm of solicitors. For a few shocking, thumping seconds, however, I was back there, back in Gloucester, at the end of February 1994.  He was talking about a long serrated knife, which he had bought in the frozen-food shop Iceland; talking, 10 years ago this month, to police. 'I cut her legs off with that and I'm not telling you I have lived that a million times doing that since then and then I cut her head off and then I put her in the bin and put the lid on and rolled it down to the bottom of the garden behind the Wendy house.' He dug a hole in which to bury Heather. 'I avoided the roots of the young tree, mind.' Later we would learn from one of the Wests' children, Barry, how the girl's end had come. 'Then mum stamped on her head five times and Heather didn't move again.' There is worse, much worse, in the evidence and the transcripts and diaries, of the torture and death and burial and disintegration of Heather and 11 others, but I feel it unfair and pointless to rehearse many more grisly details; some of the families of victims are known to continue to read anything written about the case, and this anniversary is not going to be easy. The quote above, on the other hand, is unlikely to upset the child's parents, because Heather's parents were Frederick Walter Stephen West and Rosemary Pauline West, née Letts. Heather had been born in October 1970, when Rose was 16, seven months after Fred's first wife, Catherine (Rena), disappeared. Heather's was the first body to be found, 10 years ago on 26 February, after one of the younger West children, who had been taken into care, told social workers and police of the family 'joke' about Heather, who had (according to her parents) run away from home in 1987. If you disobeyed Fred or Rose, the children teased each other, you'd end up, like Heather, 'under the patio'. DC Wendy Savage, who knew the Wests of old and had been investigating this disappearance with increasing suspicion, took the joke seriously enough to send in a team, with spades, that weekend. Heather was found. Rose denied all. Fred confessed, but only to Heather's killing, which he blamed on the girl herself. Police only knew they were dealing with much more than an isolated family murder when they discovered another tibia nearby. 'But Fred...' Savage had to prompt him, as he continued to insist there had only been one killing... 'Heather didn't have three legs.' By 10 March, when the last set of bones, those of Carol Ann Cooper, was exhumed, the nation was in thrall, and in shock. It wasn't just the bodies, the unpalatable number of deaths; nor was it just the realisation that so many of our 'missing', no matter how wise or educated or canny, had been so vulnerable to a cheap-talking rapist and his rapist wife. It was more the picture that emerged of the Wests' lives: how, at the end of the twentieth century, could such topsy-turvy corruption, such a moral charnel-house, have existed with impunity for so long in a domestic street in the middle of one of our oldest market towns? Martin Amis, whose cousin Lucy Partington disappeared on 27 December 1973, and was later found to be one of the Wests' victims, describes, in his memoir Experience, how the average domestic day at 25 Cromwell Street was 'a scarcely credible inventory of troglodytic squalor, including theft, violence, incest, rape, sexual torture, whoredom, pimpdom, peeping-tomdom, pornography, child prostitution and paedophilia'. No normal rules applied: none. At one stage last week, attempting to draw up a rough chronology to help myself cope with the sheer number of outrages, I became hopelessly confused. How could Fred have married Rena Costello in 1962, yet also married her in 1970? Then the penny dropped: it was my simplistic shorthand and too many annotations of m'd . He married her in 1962; he murdered her in 1970. Married, murdered. Fathered, mothered, murdered. Mothered, tortured. Brought up, buried. Loved/loathed. Raised/raped. Fred and Rose, this savagely dysfunctional pair of squalids, had actually managed to corrupt our vestigial sense of what home means, what family means, what human beings mean to other human beings. 'From a sociological point of view, it made quite a difference,' says Goatley, a pleasant and thoughtful family man settling easily into his sofa at home but a vastly different man from the 37-year-old relative innocent who happened to be duty lawyer that Saturday night, 10 years back, when they called on behalf of Rose. 'Here we had a proper nuclear family, properly married couple, with their own house, proper mortgage, lots of kids - and look what had gone on! The fact that some of the moral issues of 10 years ago, the drive for conformity, have now faded is in part, I think, due to the West case: people are now happier to accept other forms of cohabitation, other models. 'That's what it did to the country at large. Here - of course it had a huge effect. Most people seemed to know someone involved. It's a little city, a big town. It's difficult to say how long it took the place to start moving on. I don't know if it has. With me, it took years. 'I think, in hindsight, it had more of an impact than I realised at the time. My wife has said I was... difficult... to live with. Today there are times when I just can't bear to watch TV after the watershed when there's blood and gore. Which is new. And I found it very difficult to learn about the details of Soham, for instance: I didn't basically want to know, which is very different for me. 'The frightening thing too, for me, was learning about their backgrounds, Fred and Rose, realising how the seeds had been sown so long before, in other generations. Fred being abused by his mother, Rose by her father, who you might not realise continued to abuse her, with Fred's encouragement, long after the marriage. Clearly abuse and incest were, with both, deeply entrenched, taken as a kind of norm; and clearly this has happened, happens, elsewhere. 'Yes, it could happen again. Kids are not necessarily being brought up better, safer, than 100 years ago or 50 years ago. And police and social services say they're more conscious - they will argue the West case changed things for them too. I wouldn't bet on it. Everything's driven by efficiency.' Goatley hasn't been in touch with Rose for a while. He sent her a Christmas card last year - 'I always send a card' - but for once received none in reply, and he's not sure whether, technically, he's still her lawyer or not. 'A couple of years ago she said she was resigned to staying in jail, and wouldn't bother appealing. She's never confessed to any guilt. How could she? The monstrousness of what happened must be too much for her to admit to herself. 'You know, she was the more sociable, the more spontaneous. Fred didn't even drink - odd though it sounds, he was scared of losing control. She tried to be persuasive. Sociable. Amenable. She tried to charm me. She wanted me to think well of her. She... she liked me.' Rose got engaged last year, to one of her corre spondents, a musician named Dave Glover. The engagement is now over. I'd love to be able to report that it was Rose who broke it off, when she realised he had once been the bass player for Slade, but it was he who finished it, realising he wouldn't be able to cope with the publicity. People try to argue that she can charm, and be human, and that she was a victim of the psychopath Fred, and her psychopath father Bill; and then you read some more transcripts. Here's Rose, for instance, talking to police these 10 years ago after Fred had announced he alone had killed Heather (For a long time he tried to protect Rose, even though she spurned him completely after the arrests. In vain: she was convicted of 10 of the murders). How did she feel, asked sympathetic police, realising her own daughter had not run away from home but been lying under the patio for seven years? You read her answer, so gothically lacking in charm and sensitivity as to be almost comical - 'Heather? I feel a bit of a cunt, to be blunt.' - and you hope the door stays shut forever. It is astonishing to realise how many people have been affected by the actions of this one toxically immoral couple. Families of the victims, and extended families, hundreds of people, are still wounded not just by the deaths but by Fred's lying attempts to blame the killings on the girls themselves: it was always an accident, or they had been coming on too strong, or trying to make him leave Rose. And there are, I am told, hundreds more, perhaps thousands, of people in Gloucester today who are trying to erase memories of meeting the Wests, in any capacity. Foul guilt follows those who used Rose as a prostitute. Fred, you may remember, would send Rose off to pick up 'coloureds'. He liked watching, through drilled holes - 'my bedroom was like a sieve,' said one daughter. Police, social workers, neighbours, even journalists. Author Gordon Burn says he has had to try to distance himself for sanity's sake after three years totally immersed, in the 'sewer-like' details. He remembers things such as the committal for Rose - 'five of us in the overspill room with an audio feed, quite the most grotesque details being read out, and we all felt somehow sullied. For even being there'. He remembers the local library, trawling through back copies of newspapers. 'These nice quiet Gloucester people, still in a state of shock, bringing me what I needed. And I felt like a pornographer.' He remembers sitting six feet away from Rose in court and becoming quietly, resolutely, comprehensively convinced of her utter guilt. He remembers the feeling when he realised the one simple thing that was so odd about Fred, basic but chilling. 'He didn't, in fact, see people as people. That was it. That's the big thing.' They've stopped trying to work it out, think anything about it, in Gloucester, where they can't buy Gordon's book. There are shrugs and sighs and silence in the Wellington Arms, and doors swiftly closed in Cromwell Street itself. Most weren't here 10 years ago - the street's population is still highly transient, DSS rooms £60 a week, a drug den round the corner: little if anything has changed since my last time here a decade ago - and those who were don't want to talk. 'I can understand why,' says the pastor, Stefan. 'I'm German by birth, born in 1966, 21 years after the war ended, yet I grew up with the burden of Germany. And there comes a point when you don't want to be reminded of it any more. The thought of it still fills people with fear, because no one seems to have noticed what was going on. Should they have? Would you? I think, again, of my own background. People could certainly smell something from the concentration camps. But no one knew, properly, until the Allies forced local populations into the camps to see the bodies; and many couldn't take it; there were suicides.' I wonder, as I wander back down, towards the deserted park at the end of Cromwell Street, seagulls perched on the dirty old statue of Robert Rakes, founder of the Sunday School, whether it's too much to draw comparisons between the microcosm of this part of the Gloucester and the Holocaust. Two minutes later I'm outside 25 Midland Road, where the remains of Rena's daughter, Charmaine West, were recovered from under the back porch, and I'm not sure any more. Fred haunts Gloucester. Rose haunts Gloucester. This house still stands. There is no answer, then or later. Depression sets in as I'm walking down, appropriately enough, Black Dog Lane, thinking about the weird duality of this part of the world. Buses are setting off for little Cotswoldy village names, Podsmead and Lower Tuffley, which sing of oatmeal stone and village greens; and yet they are setting off from a bus station streaked mid-morning with fresh urine, and there's an undercover drugs operation centred on the cafe. You could know this area by its duality, and call it Potter's fields: the home of Beatrix Potter and her sweet little animal washerwomen in animal pinnies; but also of Dennis Potter, and his dark tales of incest and corruption and fear in the Forest of Dean. I am conscious, too, of a duality in the pages I've just been reading, the local paper, the Citizen , with a big spread of birthday notices. 'Look Who's 30!' and 'Look Who's 45!' run the headlines, white on black, over pictures of smiling toddlers taken back in the Seventies: we are meant to rejoice at the little faces having made it to middle age; but, thinking all the time of the Wests, I can only be struck by the ones who didn't grow up. Another abbreviation in my notes: whb. Would have been. Anne McFall, Scots-born nanny to Fred and Rena, buried along with Fred's unborn child in a wood near Much Marcle in 1967. Would have been 55. Her friend Rena, the Glasgow prostitute who fused the link in Fred's mind between sex and corruption and power and perversion, discovered on 11 March 1994 in the next-door field, who would, today, have been 59. Her daughter Charmaine, murdered in April 1971, Charmaine would have been 40 this year, whb 40. Heather, pretty Heather, for whose death West invented an unfeasibly large number of frankly mad excuses. Would have been 33 this year: should have been 33 this year. Shirley Robinson, whb 43. Alison Chambers: 41. Lynda Gough: 40. Juanita Mott: 46. Carol Ann 'Caz' Cooper: 45. Shirley Hubbard: 44. Therese Siegenthaler: 51. Lucy Partington: 51. In 1994 the National Missing Persons Helpline was receiving between 3,000 and 4,000 calls a year. Today, the figure is more than 10,000.