Mary Flora Bell, aged 11, was sentenced to life detention at Newcastle upon Tyne Assizes yesterday after being found guilty of the manslaughter of two little boys. But the jury said she was suffering from diminished responsibility at the time and found her not guilty of murder.A second schoolgirl, Norma Joyce Bell, aged 13, unrelated, but living next door to Mary in Whitehouse Road, Scotswood, Newcastle, was found not guilty of murder and not guilty of manslaughter on both charges. Mary broke down and wept as she heard the verdicts reached by the jury after a retirement of three hours and 40 minutes. Her mother and grandmother, sitting on the benches behind her, also wept.Grave riskAnnouncing the sentence, Mr Justice Cusack described Mary as "dangerous" and said there was "a very grave risk to other children if she is not closely watched."The two victims were 4-year-old Martin Brown, of St Margaret's Road, Scotswood, who was found dead in a derelict house on May 25, and 3-year-old Brian Howe, of Whitehouse Road, Scotswood, whose body was found on waste ground near his home two months later. The two girls had denied all the charges.Dr David Westbury, a Home Office psychiatrist, told the jury that Mary had a psychopathic disorder within the meaning of the Mental Health Act, Asked by the judge if he knew of a place where she could go, he replied, "No". Questioned by Mr Harvey Robson for Mary, Dr Westbury said he thought her period of treatment should last "some years".Unhappy thingThe Judge said: "It is a most unhappy thing that in all the resources of this country it appears there is no hospital available which is suitable for the accommodation of this girl."Dr Westbury's inquiries indicated that the matter was the responsibility of the health department of the Ministry of Social Security said the judge. But the department "require time to consider what they are to do and no specific time is indicated."He continued: "It is an appalling thing that with a child as young as this one, one has to take into consideration such matters. I am not entirely unsympathetic but anxious as I am to do everything for her benefit, my primary duty is to protect other people."There is a very grave risk to other children if she is not closely watched and every conceivable step taken to see that she doesn't do again what she has been found guilty of. In the case of a child of this age, no question of imprisonment arises. I have power to order a sentence of detention and it seems to me that no other method of dealing with her in the circumstances is suitable."Life detention, he said, did not mean that the person concerned was kept in custody indefinitely or for the rest of their natural lives. The position could be considered form time to time.Turning to Norma, the Judge said he was anxious about her future. He hoped now that the trial was over, "that nobody will attempt to discuss the matter with her. It seems to be in the interests of this child that the matters we have had to deal with should be put behind her".