   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest The police had – very politely – requested members of the public not to join the search for April Jones. But residents of Machynlleth and the surrounding areas were having none of it.By lunchtime hundreds of people, many of whom had taken the day off work or been given leave, had defied the police and were out in the hills, valleys and forests around the town in mid-Wales."We're liaising with the police to make sure that we don't get in their way at all," said farmer Emyr Lewis, who was heading a group of 30 or so searchers in and around the village of Aberhosan, five miles south of Machynlleth. "But people want to be out there doing something. We can't just sit at home or go to work while this is going on. We can't rest until she's found."Lewis's team were searching the banks of the small river in the Dyfi valley, where the police's most visible efforts have been concentrated, in outhouses, sheds and shepherds' huts.  April Jones.They knocked on residents' doors asking if they could look in gardens and urged them to check everywhere, even in their attics.Also on the team were Kevin Ellis and Barry Evans, from Tywyn, a town around 10 miles from Machynlleth. They had been given the day off by the sustainable energy company they work for so that they could help the search.Ellis knows the lanes around Aberhosan because he is a member of a motor club that organises races around the tracks here. "I think we're just trying to tap into any local knowledge about the area. We haven't found anything but we can help eliminate areas at least."Martin Jones and Rebecca Jordan, who have three young children, said they could not bear to stay at home while April was missing. "If one of ours had gone, we'd want people to get out here and try to find her," said Jordan.This public effort was being organised by a group of volunteers based at the leisure centre in Machynlleth. They took names and phone numbers of people who wanted to help then split them into groups led by the likes of Lewis to scour the countryside.   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest Carl Jones, one of the organisers, said they were targeting more than 30 villages, hamlets and settlements (video). He stopped short of criticising the police's tactics but said there was an element of "frustration" that the search seemed so focused on the immediate vicinity around Machynlleth rather than the wider area and even further afield across the UK.Even as the searchers were beginning to gather shortly after first light, the police were putting out messages that they were not needed. Officers have said they are worried that members of the public could put themselves at risk.Later, realising that they could not stop people from going out to search, they softened their stance.Superintendent Ian John said police were "appreciative" of the support from volunteers who "desperately want to assist in the search to find April".He said the force was now consulting with the National Police Search Centre to see how to best use the untrained community volunteers to help.John emphasised that the police had to co-ordinate the search to ensure its integrity, adding: "Under police co-ordination we can use volunteers at the right time, in the right place and utilise appropriate skills. This will maximise opportunities and prevent people attending when there may not be readily available tasks."