Scotland Yard tonight confirmed they had been aware of allegations of assault and threats to kill the teenage girl who was stabbed to death yesterday.Arsema Dawit, 15, and her family made the complaint about a man she had met at church and who had been friendly towards her, senior police sources told the Guardian. Senior officers were today examining whether the complaint, made in April, had been properly investigated.In a statement issued this evening the police supplied more information about the initial assault allegation. They said it had been made on the evening of 30 April and concerned the behaviour of a man, aged either 29 or 30, in a McDonald's restaurant on Walworth Road, south London, on 16 April. The police statement said threats to kill Arsema Dawit were also reported and the allegations were handed over to Southwark police for investigation. The statement also said that when Dawit was visited at schoolby police officers 12 days after allegations were reported, "the victim was unaware of the incident and had no knowledge of it". Despite this the police said they continued to investigate the allegation. A man was arrested after the teenager's body was found yesterday in a block of flats in south London, and is being held in police custody. The police statement said this man was 21 years old. The police now think the man Dawit first reported to them for assault six weeks ago was probably much younger than the age first described. Sources told the Guardian the man in custody was being treated as the prime suspect and was known to the girl.The Metropolitan police will try to discover whether Arsema and her family cooperated with officers after making their complaint.Officers are aware that any suggestion that the complaint was not properly handled, and a girl died as a result, could be highly corrosive to the reputation of the Met."It has been established that Arsema and the suspect knew each other but the exact nature of their relationship is unclear at this stage," police said."Police did receive an allegation of assault made by Arsema and her family in April this year. An ongoing investigation was set up and contact was made with the victim with a view to further progressing that investigation."The 15-year-old was found slumped in her school uniform in a lift at Matheson Lang Gardens, near Waterloo station, at about 4.30pm yesterday. She had celebrated her 15th birthday at the weekend. She is the 16th teenager to have died violently in London this year but police do not think her murder is gang-related. A neighbour, Cosima Paniza, reported hearing an argument in the staircase of the flats in the minutes before the teenager died. Paniza, who has lived in the block for 28 years, said she heard shouting just before 4pm. "I went to put my rubbish in the chute and I heard the man and the girl arguing," she said.Paniza said: "I couldn't get the words of the girl because she was shouting so loud.A postmortem examination was due to be carried out today.