More than 1,000 boys aged 15 and 16 have been remanded in custody in the past eight months despite a 10-year-old government pledge, enshrined in legislation, to end the much-criticised practice. Some 1,068 unconvicted boys under 17 were remanded to young offenders' institutions between April and November, more than double the 440 who were held on remand in 1992 when the practice was supposed to be phased out. About 300 of those held this year were aged just 15 and were remanded for an average of six weeks while waiting for their cases to come to court. The practice of sending teenage girls to youth prisons to await trial was abolished in the early 1980s. There has been concern for more than 20 years about the use of custody for such young boys, triggered by a series of scandals in young offender jails involving persistent bullying and teenage suicides. The appalling conditions in which some unconvicted teenagers are held were highlighted recently by Sir David Ramsbotham, the chief inspector of prisons, in his reports on Feltham and Portland young offender institutions and by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf's criticism last month of the "corrosive" atmosphere inside some youth jails. The latest Home Office figures show that a pledge to phase out the use of custody for such teenagers, first made by the Conservative government in 1991 and repeated by every successive home secretary, has been left on the shelf. The promise was enshrined in the 1991 Criminal Justice Act which said that unless the boy was charged with a serious violent or sexual offence, or had a history of absconding, they should be held in local authority secure units. Ministers hoped to build extra units to ensure the practice was abolished by 1996. There are only 441 places in local authority secure units and the National Association of Probation Officers claims that their expansion has not been a priority for successive ministers. But new figures obtained by Napo show that far from ending the scandal it is now twice as bad. Previous studies have shown that about 30% of those remanded in custody are held for serious violent offences such as robbery or for being involved in sex crimes. Most have been charged with burglary, stealing cars or other types of theft. A recent study by the youth justice board has also shown there is wide inconsistency between magistrates' benches over their use of custody for teenage offenders. Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation union, said: "Successive governments' records on remanding 15 and 16 year olds to prison custody is quite scandalous. It is now 10 years since the initial pledge was given to end the practice. The conditions are wholly unacceptable. Successive prison inspectorate reports have condemned the conditions in young offenders' institutions as being conducive to bullying, self injury and further crime. Ending the practice must be a priority after the next election."