Confidence is high that reoffending rates could be reduced for the first time in living memory, according to Martin Narey, who next month starts work as the Home Office's first "commissioner for correctional services". The job, which carries the rank of permanent secretary, will be to bring together the work of the prison and probation services and advise ministers on the development of sentencing policy. Narey, outgoing director-general of the prison service, has said in an interview with the Guardian that reoffending rates can be cut. "It has been a straight line across the graph since the 1950s," he says. "But we have a group of ministers who believe that prisons and probation can reduce reoffending, and who have invested heavily in order that we may do so, and who now want to see results." Narey admits that his new title is "inelegant", but he believes that people will soon learn what it means. He will be responsible not just for the two services working more closely together, but also for overseeing the youth justice board (YJB), which has had a bumpy relationship with his prison service. His criminal justice policy, including the sentencing brief, will also mean the parole board coming under his wing. And he has retained direct responsibility for the private prison sector, ending the apparent conflict of interest that arose whenever the public prison service bid against a private company for a contract. Now it would be seen as a genuine competition. Narey says the title of "commissioner" is meant to foreshadow a future move towards a purchaser/ provider relationship between the Home Office and the public prison service. The task of bringing prisons and probation closer together does not come without some historical baggage, however. "There was a significant cultural divide and a great deal of antipathy between the two services," admits Narey. New sentences, such as "custody-plus", will pose a challenge to ensure such attitudes are now firmly in history, he says. "We need to see short sentences, essentially useless at the moment, as a potentially vital introduction into the much longer community element of the custody-plus sentence - a brief spell in custody during which we might detox an individual, give him an introduction to basic skills, a taster of what an offending behaviour course is, but it has to be all with an eye on what follows in the community." The gains could be enormous in terms of impact on short-sentenced prisoners, he believes. "A mother recently wrote to me to tell me of her drug addicted son's time in Wandsworth, serving six months of a 12-month sentence. She thanked me for giving her her son back. But tragically, this young man in his early 20s, really not much more than a boy, left Wandsworth clean for the first time in years, kept away from drugs for a little while but then relapsed, overdosed and died. We know we can change lives if we work together." The prison service could learn from probation how to make partnerships with the voluntary sector work, Narey thinks, while there are lessons for probation in the success of the prison service in using contracting out and competition to drive up standards and efficiency. And the YJB could teach both about how to provide the courts with the confidence to use a new community penalty - the intensive supervision and surveillance order - to such an extent that the juvenile prison population is now growing much more slowly than the adult population. "We need to do much more to market what community penalties are about," says Narey. "I don't think we have yet convinced sentencers just how much more rigorous community penalties have become."