An "accomplished conman" who claimed to be the illegitimate son of financier Edmund de Rothschild was today sentenced to 18 years in prison for defrauding a single mother and raping a teenage girl.Alexander Marc de Rothschild-Hatton claimed to be an Oxford-educated international financier as part of his plan to bleed more than £300,000 from divorcee Christine Handy.The unemployed 49-year-old, of Cirencester, Gloucestershire, was found guilty at Bristol crown court of seven counts of obtaining money transfers by deception.He was also convicted last May of four counts of rape and three counts of sexual assault.Judge Julian Lambert sentenced De Rothschild-Hatton to 15 years for the sexual offences and three years for the fraud offences. The terms will be served consecutively.The jury heard De Rothschild-Hatton told "preposterous" lies to Handy, who had her fourth child with the defendant, in a bid to take considerable sums of money from her.The fraudster first approached her in June 2003 in a coffee shop in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire, where he told her he had been observing her for some time and offered financial advice with her divorce settlement. Handy, 45, said that when she first met the defendant away from the coffee shop, he started to talk up his apparently illustrious background."He talked about schools he attended," she said. "He started off with one school and ended up with another. First he was at Westminster and that ended up as Eton. He said he was an outstanding pupil."He said he went to Oxford University at 15 years old. He had a degree as an engineer and also as an economist."Handy said that at a subsequent meeting De Rothschild-Hatton brought his passport. "He turned up with his passport, he said, 'because I want you to know who I really am'. He said he was a Rothschild."She later added: "He said he was adopted. He said his real father was Edmund."Handy told the court De Rothschild-Hatton claimed to have recently returned from Helsinki, Finland, where he worked as an industrialist. She said he claimed he could not tell her any more, as he was governed by the Official Secrets Act.De Rothschild-Hatton also claimed to have been acquainted with the speculator George Soros.Handy lent De Rothschild-Hatton sums ranging from £50,000 to £105,000 for London Business School fees, income tax demands and investment opportunities.But in reality he was spending the cash on luxury items including clothes from Burberry and Ralph Lauren, and a £66,000 BMW convertible.She told the court a member of his family approached her and told her "he was not who he was proposing to be", so in September 2006 she confronted him.De Rothschild-Hatton responded by ending the relationship, but she tracked him down to the town of White Plains in New York state.It emerged that while De Rothschild-Hatton was duping Handy, he was also raping and sexually assaulting a teenage girl.In an earlier trial at Bristol crown court, the jury heard De Rothschild-Hatton repeatedly raped his victim, getting her pregnant on one occasion and forcing her to have an abortion.The court heard De Rothschild-Hatton had previous convictions for deception and fraud in Bournemouth and Finland.Lambert said a sexual offences prevention order would be made and a proceeds of crime act hearing would be held in due course.Lambert said De Rothschild-Hatton had refused to attend his sentencing and added it was "not worth the petrol in the van" to force him.Passing sentence, the judge said De Rothschild-Hatton "systematically corrupted" his teenage rape victim, getting her pregnant on one occasion."From the age of 13 to 17 she was utterly oppressed and he made her miserable. He has despoiled her formative years, which should have been filled with happiness."He added: "As well as raping a young girl, he took to preying on an emotionally vulnerable woman. By telling lies disguised by a thin veneer of respectability and education he extracted towards £300,000 from her."