The law of murder was described as "a mess" in the Law Commission report Partial Defences to Murder. The government's response to that criticism was to give back the task of examining the law of murder to the commission. But what could have been a comprehensive review of all aspects of criminal homicide was carefully limited from the outset. The mandatory life sentence for murder was not on the agenda, yet this remains at the very heart of the "mess". The commission has now returned an utterly devastating judgment: "The law governing homicide in England and Wales is a rickety structure set upon shaky foundations."In 1994, in the House of Lords, Lord Mustill referred to the law as "permeated by anomaly, fiction, misnomer and obsolete reasoning". In 1975, Lord Kilbrandon lamented their lordships spending "these many hours and days ... trying to adjust a definition of that which has no content". His suggestion, for the abolition of murder and manslaughter and replacement by a single crime of unlawful homicide, has been all but ignored for a generation.So too, retaining the mandatory life sentence prevents any reform of the law taking the Kilbrandon route to a single, all-encompassing offence of criminal homicide, with the judges passing individually based sentences. The mandatory sentence means that murder must remain a crime apart.New Labour and its Tory predecessors have prayed in aid the existence of a "pact" that, in exchange for abolishing the death penalty in 1965, it was agreed that it would be replaced by life imprisonment. Yet the only evidence for this is the oral recollection - 30 years later - of the late Lord Shepherd, then government chief whip in the Lords. Despite searching contemporary cabinet papers, Hansard and the private papers of Gerald Gardiner, lord chancellor at the time, we have found nothing to support the Shepherd claim. This myth provides a ready argument that precludes change. How far is this argument a result of fear of what is perceived to be popular opinion against change? Limited research suggests people are more thoughtful. There are, too, unfounded anxieties about judges being tempted to leniency.The Law Commission suggests that murders be divided into first and second degree. The former, limited to an intention to kill, would carry the mandatory life sentence. The latter, with a (discretionary) maximum sentence of life, would be based on an intention to do serious harm or a reckless indifference as to whether death might result.Manslaughter, where the offender intended to cause the victim physical harm or did something foreseen as involving such a risk, would carry a fixed term of imprisonment. Ironically, these proposals have been portrayed as a relaxation of the law permitting killers to receive lesser sentences than they deserve. Yet if anything, such proposals might well ensure that some who presently "walk free" are convicted. But the Law Commission maintains that even if the Kilbrandon formula embodying a single homicide offence were an option it is not something it would recommend. Its argument appears centred on the idea that death, along with the mental element involved, sets murder as a crime apart."Murder" is a term of art rather than an objective description of a criminal event. Yet, as some of those who oppose the notion of it being divided into two degrees will maintain, the fact and consequences of a violent death resulting from a criminal act can be the same however it is categorised.Importantly, this is also true of that other variety of killing that appears to slip ever further away from being regarded as a "crime" in the true sense, towards being perceived as the result of tragically accidental, though seriously irresponsible behaviour. No drunken or dangerous driver who survives a fatal road incident need fear a discretionary life sentence, since parliament has provided a 10-year maximum that sentencing practice scarcely approaches. The case for bringing road crimes back into the mainstream of manslaughter is compelling.The government, committed to "evidenced-based" policy, ought to have the courage to open up the debate. What is now required is for the substantive law of homicide and the penalties for it to be redrawn, but not on the worn palimpsest upon which they are presently inscribed. Nothing short of a clean slate will do.· Sir Louis Blom-Cooper QC and Professor Terence Morris are the authors of With Malice Aforethought: A Study of the Crime and Punishment for Homicidemorris.atventa@virgin.net