I first met the Johnson family at the beginning of their extraordinary three-year crime spree across the rolling countryside of south-west England.  Serial burglar Ricky Johnson in a police mugshot. Photograph: EPAAfter driving down winding country lanes, past houses worth millions of pounds, I discovered their ramshackle caravan site in a prime location on a hill overlooking the stunning Cotswold valleys. Here behind a five-bar gate sat Ma Johnson, the matriarch, in a plastic chair, sipping tea from a mug. She was surrounded by deeply suntanned female members of the family, all drawing hard on cigarettes and eyeing me suspiciously. Dogs barked persistently and younger Johnsons, their faces covered in grime, sprayed me with water pistols as I asked to see the two men who led the enormous family – the brothers Ricky and Alan "Jimmy" Johnson.It was to be a while longer before I saw these two - described by some as godfathers, and others as the salt of the earth. Jimmy and I were introduced in a McDonald's off the A4 outside Reading - a place that would become our regular "meet" - to talk about the burglaries. Dark-haired, good-looking and sporting a heavy gold chain, tattoos and the tan of a man who lives on the road, he always denied having anything to do with the raids in Gloucestershire, Warwickshire, Wiltshire and Worcestershire between 2003 and 2006.It was Jimmy who would eventually offer to help the most high-profile victim, Lord Rothschild, look for his stolen property. Walking uninvited into Rothschild's home, Waddesdon Manor, one day, he announced himself as Jimmy Johnson and offered to use his contacts to recover Rothschild's millions of pounds worth of stolen antiques. Rothschild accepted and Jimmy set off to use his "criminal contacts" to find the goods. But by then the valuables had been passed on to bigger fish - Russians were mentioned - and despite his close connections, Jimmy never lived up to his promise.Now serving time for cash machine robberies, Jimmy fell out with Ricky, who repeatedly claimed to me he had renounced crime and turned to God. Ricky complained that his family were being victimised by police, hounded off their various encampments and blamed for crimes they had not committed.The police certainly did not stint on manpower when it came to the Johnsons. On one occasion in the five years it has taken to bring them to justice, hundreds of officers, some carrying machine guns and all supported by a helicopter overhead, made a dawn raid on the Johnson's Cotswold site. It was plain and simple harassment, Ricky told me later, again denying that his family had anything to do with the robberies.Despite his denials, Ricky and his relatives continued their violent rampage. Charming rogues they may sound, but the Johnsons were vicious when they were on their business. One elderly widow in Oxfordshire was sleeping when the giant double doors of her manor house exploded inwards from the force of a four-wheel drives the Johnsons had fitted with fence post protruding from the roofrack as a battering ram.Ricky Johnson shouted to a crown court judge on the day of his retirement: "May I say from this side your honour, thank you for fairness."No doubt his many victims would agree.