The name of Siôn Jenkins, who was convicted of murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo six years ago, should now take its place in the "tragic roll-call" of people wrongly convicted on the basis of faulty scientific evidence, his counsel today told the court of appeal.Clare Montgomery QC said Jenkins ranked alongside Sally Clark and Angela Cannings - who were both cleared on appeal of killing their children - Judith Ward, who was cleared of involvement in the M62 coach bombing, and the defendants in two other IRA terrorist cases, the Birmingham Six and the Maguire Seven. "The prosecution's scientific case against Siôn Jenkins has quite literally collapsed," she told Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Curtis and Mr Justice Wakerley. Jenkins, 46, was convicted at Lewes Crown Court in 1998 of battering his 13-year-old foster daughter to death with an 18-inch metal tent spike as she painted a patio door at their home in Hastings, east Sussex, on February 15 1997. It was alleged that, during a three-minute visit to the house, Jenkins had had an argument with Billie-Jo, lost his temper, hit her over the head up to 10 times and then driven off on a shopping trip to a DIY store with two of his four natural daughters, Charlotte and Annie. A major issue in the case centred on how 150 microscopic spots of Billie-Jo's blood came to be found on Jenkins' clothing. He insisted they must have come from blood exhaled on the girl's dying breath as he leant over her stricken body in an attempt to help her. Miss Montgomery told the judges, who last week heard fresh scientific evidence in Jenkins' second appeal court bid to clear his name: "The prosecution scientists, who swore on oath before the jury and the first court of appeal that there could be no innocent explanation for the blood on his clothing, now accept it is a reasonable possibility that the blood was expirated as he tended Billie-Jo. "Prosecution scientists, having sworn that Billie-Jo's airways could not generate a passive spray of blood, have now admitted the presence of interstitial emphysema, a condition belatedly revealed on histological examination of Billie-Jo's lungs." This finding, plus other evidence, showed that air pressure lay "dammed up" behind a blockage in her upper airway, the court heard. As a result, "anyone who moved Billie-Jo's fallen body at the critical time, or simply touched her to tend to her, or anyone who was simply by her when the blockage released, would have been liable to be covered silently and microscopically by a fine spatter of blood," Ms Montgomery said.She added that if Dr Ian Hill, an eminent pathologist, had carried out the histological examination (microscopic examination of tissue) required by official guidelines, the whole course of the criminal investigation and trial could have been different. "It is astonishing that, last week, Dr Hill was trying to claim in this court that histology is not an essential part of post mortem," she said. The trial jury and the original appeal court had also been assured by Dr Hill and Professor David Southall that Billie-Jo could not have survived for any length of time after the attack. "Here again, the histological examination has given the lie to those confident and glib assurances," Miss Montgomery said. She told the appeal hearing that Billie-Jo could have lived for 20 minutes and, in all probability, had still been alive when Jenkins found her after returning from the shopping trip. Concessions made by the scientists during the fresh appeal "mean that no single strand of the prosecution's scientific case as presented to the jury remains unbroken", Ms Montgomery told the court. Had the new concessions been made at the trial or before, the case would have not reached the jury or, if it had, the jury would have acquitted, she said. There was other clear evidence that positively established Jenkins was innocent, Ms Montgomery said. New testimony from Charlotte and Annie, who were with Jenkins on the day of the murder, showed that he could not have committed the crime because he would not have had time. Jenkins' ex-wife Lois, who gave evidence for the Crown in the appeal, was a "deeply unsatisfactory witness", Ms Montgomery said. She had tried to prevent the girls from being contacted by the criminal cases review commission, which eventually referred the case back to the court of appeal. The court could not safely conclude that she told the truth in police interviews which gave defence lawyers the impression that the girls were hostile to their father and therefore should not be called as witnesses at the trial. The appeal continues.