The steel doors open to reveal the last thing you'd expect in a scruffy building within the walls of Aylesbury young offender institution in Buckinghamshire - a workshop full of gleaming Toyotas, including a spanking new Avensis saloon. Anywhere else it could be seen as a twoccer's paradise - "twoccing" being street slang for the popular British pastime of taking without consent. At least some of Aylesbury's inmates will have twocced in their time, but the 24 young men who wield spanners in this workshop each day are engaged in something that will do them more good in the long term: a national vocational qualification (NVQ) level three in motor vehicle maintenance - an essential step towards a job as a mechanic when they leave prison. At least 10 recent graduates of the course have gone straight into jobs with car dealerships. Darryl, a 20-year-old who will finish his burglary sentence soon, is approaching final exams and has had a promising response to his job application from a garage near his home in Kent. "It'll be apprentice wages, and you could probably get more going out nicking - £300 or £400 at least," he says. "But I've been in prison quite a bit and I want to get my life sorted out now. I've always been interested in cars, but I left school with no qualifications and started getting into drugs - mainly cannabis and a few pills on a Friday night. I've grown up a bit now, though. I've been given a bit of a chance and I've taken it." The chance comes courtesy of Toyota (GB), which invested £350,000 in setting up and equipping the workshop and which contributes between £20,000 and £30,000 a year in the form of cars for the trainees to work on, tools and training literature. The company does not guarantee anyone a job, but it encourages its dealers to take a serious look at Aylesbury graduates. The thinking behind the scheme is simple: there is a shortage of trained motor mechanics, it's hard to attract trainees - so why not recruit among prisoners? Then you can tackle your skill shortage by doing society a favour; employment has been shown to be the dominant factor in curbing re-offending among ex-prisoners. Contributing to the wider community is a central concern of large companies nowadays, but so far only Toyota and a few others have become involved in training prisoners. The scheme that is probably most successful in putting former young inmates into work is run by the National Grid Transco Foundation in Reading young offender institution (YOI). A chronic shortage of trained people to renew the country's gas distribution network over the next 30 years prompted the company to invest £50,000 in researching and setting up a training programme. The course has been completed so far by nine young men, who are now out of prison and working with Transco contractors. One other trainee is doing a warehouse job instead. Ford has also started a training workshop in Feltham YOI, west London, but schemes by other companies in Norwich, Sussex and London involve only small numbers of prisoners taking part in existing courses on day release from custody. So the question arises: why, especially where there are serious labour shortages, does the private sector not do more training in prisons? Geoff Davies, dealer training and development manager for Toyota (GB), says there is no reason why other companies should not do what his has done. "We've found that our trainees are bright lads, but they've probably not been at school since their early teens. In a structured environment, some become star pupils - several of our dealers have taken them and it's been very successful." Mervyn Barrett, resettlement courses manager for crime reduction charity Nacro, thinks employers may be worried about adverse publicity. "When Marks & Spencer began to take one or two people from prison to work in one of their stores, they had serious concerns about it," he says. "But they soon found that other staff took to them and saw them just as ordinary people who want and need to work. Former prisoners have no ulterior motive in seeking work - there's no evidence from any research that ex-offenders are more likely than anyone else to offend against their employers. "I think Toyota and Transco are a couple of great schemes - examples of public-private partnerships that really seem to work. The only problem is that there aren't enough schemes like them, although I know the 'custody to work' unit within the prison service is keen to see more private companies doing this kind of thing." The idea for the workshop in Aylesbury came not from Toyota, but from Andy Woodley, a lecturer at Amersham and Wycombe College who runs the YOI workshop. A motor maintenance course was in place when he arrived, but it took people only to NVQ level two - not enough to get them a job. "Taking it to level three was a major step," he says. "I knew the prison service wouldn't be able to fund it, so I decided to approach the main manufacturers. I sent about 280 faxes in three months and got two or three responses. Only Toyota came through with the package we needed." Almost half the inmates who start the 18-month Aylesbury course drop out: some because they lack the academic ability; others because they get parole or are transferred to an adult prison at 21. Sometimes the least likely ones do best: one trainee who had never been to school since age six, and could neither read nor write, ended up passing all the exams. Woodley is confident that this course brings down re-offending rates, which stand at 72% for ex-offenders in the 18-21 age group. But he is now seeking a further £80,000 grant to employ another instructor, whose job would include finding out what happens to those who have done the course - many of whom lose touch when they leave or go into the adult system. "We know it works, but we need to prove it works," Woodley says. "So, over the next three to five years, I want to collect the figures to show that these kinds of vocational courses have a positive effect on re-offending. Then we'll have a lever to go to all sorts of industries and and say: 'Come on, you can get involved in the prison service, too.'" Mary Harris, head of the National Grid Transco Foundation, has similar concerns about gathering reliable data about the people who pass through the Reading training scheme, which will soon be extended to prisons at Rochester in Kent, Glen Parva in Leicestershire, Preston in Lancashire, and nearby Wymott. She has recruited Martin Gill, professor of criminology at Leicester University and director of PRCI consultants specialising in security and risk management, to gather statistics and evaluate the course. "What we're perhaps producing is a process and a way of doing things that reduces the risk for other employers who might also employ young offenders," Harris says. "Because we work with so many contractors, we're producing a booklet about how to go about it. It would be a model for other industries that have skills shortages." Prison inspection reports have often complained that education and training suffer first when prisons are under pressure - as they are from the current problems of overcrowding. But if industry were to provide more finance for job-linked training, that could also help cut the prison population by reducing re-offending. "With the help of the Confederation of British Industry, we are targeting other sectors of industry that can link prison training to jobs opportunities after release," says a spokesman for the prison service. "The sectors we're looking at include construction, catering, warehousing and transport." The chance of a futureNot long ago, 21-year-old Tim Jones was a heroin addict who had been busted for dealing and sentenced to 24 months in prison. It was a sensational case in the Winchester area because his mother was scooped up in the raid and had to fight to regain her nursing job when charges against her were dropped. For most young men, that first prison sentence would mean a life of crime - within two years of a first spell in custody, almost three-quarters of offenders between 18 and 21 are reconvicted, and half are behind bars again. For Jones, however, the future is looking good. He climbs out of a trench in the street in Southampton, rolls a cigarette with big muddy hands, joshes with his "ganger" and talks enthusiastically about his £14,000-a-year job laying pipes with Morrisons, one of the country's big gas contracting firms. "All the people I used to spend time with are a mess," Jones says. "I don't have anything to do with them now. I've got too much to lose - I've been given one chance and I won't get another one. My family have helped me out a lot and I wouldn't want to let them down again." His chance came when he was in Reading young offender institution and got a place on the National Grid Transco Foundation training scheme, which involved classroom work in the prison and practical training on day release at a Transco depot. It took him straight into the job, and now he has found a new place to live with his girlfriend. Drinking tea in a nearby cafe, he gives the impression of a man who feels he is getting a fair deal from the world and is prepared to reciprocate. He talks about wanting to be a team leader, which would bump his pay up to £22,000. Another Transco graduate is Daniel Rushdi, 22, from Basingstoke, Hampshire. He got a two-year sentence for robbery, but is now working with Morrisons and determined not to go back inside. For him, the crucial thing was guaranteed access to an employer. "As soon as they hear you've been in prison," he says, "most of them tell you to drop your application form in the bin on your way out." · The Reading training scheme will be featured at a conference in London tomorrow on corporate social responsibility, run by The Guardian & The Observer and supported by National Grid Transco. For further details call Catherine Stokes on 020-7713 4961 or email: conferences@theguardian.com