A detective who investigated the death of black teenager Stephen Lawrence was involved in drug-dealing and theft, according to documents obtained by The Observer .The disclosure last night prompted black community leaders and lawyers representing the parents of Lawrence to call for the inquiry to be reopened. The Lawrence family have been horrified to discover that statements from a police supergrass were never passed to their lawyers . The allegations concern former Detective Sergeant John Davidson, one of the officers most seriously criticised by the Lawrence inquiry. According to supergrass Neil Putnam, who served under Davidson in the prestigious South East Regional Crime Squad in the early Nineties, his boss was up to his neck in corruption. He retired from the force two years ago and went to run a bar in Spain. He has always denied the allegations.The issue of police corruption was addressed by Sir William Macpherson's inquiry two years ago, but it found no evidence that it had hampered the investigation. Detectives looking into the Putnam allegations wrote to the inquiry in 1998 about their concerns, but the Lawrence family lawyers were never told. Imran Khan, solicitor for the Lawrences, said: 'We were conducting the inquiry with one hand tied behind our backs. There needs to be a new investigation into whether police corruption played a part.' He said that if the police were concerned about compromising ongoing investigations into police corruption they should have asked for the suspension of the inquiry. The Putnam statements detail the theft of goods after the hijacking of a parcel lorry in December 1994 and a cocaine deal in spring 1995 involving several oficers from SERC, including Davidson and Putnam himself. Davidson was arrested in May last year on suspicion of involvement in the crimes, but was later released because there was not enough evidence to proceed. The Macpherson inquiry was highly critical of Davidson, who was found to be threatening towards potentially important witnesses. The final report concluded that '[the] attitude of DS Davidson and other officers is to be deplored.' Putnam confessed two years ago to his corrupt activities over eight years. His story will be told in a BBC Panorama programme to be screened tonight, in which he names Davidson publicly for the first time.