Young Joseph Witchalls woke early yesterday and, like many toddlers, called for his mother. His grandfather, Martin Hollins, fought back the tears as he took the 21-month-old boy into his arms and gently explained that his mother was not at home because she was not very well.Joseph is the son of Abigail Witchalls, who was stabbed in the neck in a brutal attack while walking down a lane in the affluent village of Little Bookham, Surrey, on Wednesday afternoon. Speaking publicly for the first time since, her father Martin spoke of his fears of the effect the assault would have on Joseph, the only witness. 'I heard him this morning and his first calls were for mum. He doesn't have many words but he saw what happened,' said Hollins. 'What we have no idea of is what effect it has had on him. Only time will tell.' Joseph is being looked after by his grandparents. Benoit, Abigail's husband, is keeping a 24-hour vigil at her bedside. Hollins broke down as he described his son-in-law's reaction. 'He has been there every night and will, I'm sure, be there for days yet. For him it's just unbelievable. He's done a wonderful job of communicating with his wife and that's great to see. You can see the love in their relationship. He is with her and able to see what she's feeling. He's in such pain and I really feel for him.' Hollins described Abigail, 26, as an inspiration to others. He revealed that his daughter is fully aware of the extent of her injuries and knows she is likely to remain paralysed from the neck downwards for the rest of her life. Initially, her injuries were thought to be so serious that she would not survive. A priest attended St George's hospital in Tooting, south London, where Abigail, a Catholic, is being treated, and administered the last rites. 'Initially we had absolutely no hope at all,' said her father. 'I think that's better put behind us now. Life has moved on and fortunately we have some hope. 'She's getting a bit better now and we know it's going to be a long and difficult time. She still has her sense of humour. We've seen that. We've seen the Abigail we know.' The three-inch deep wound is believed to have partly severed the teacher's spinal cord and has left her unable to speak. She can communicate only by blinks and facial expressions. The scene of the attack is still blocked off by police and fingertip searches are continuing. The only signs of a struggle left on the narrow muddy path are the track marks made by the buggy Abigail was pushing. Neighbours heard screams and rushed out of their homes to find her sprawled on the ground, her son huddled over her. One wrapped a scarf around her neck to stem the bleeding. Abigail is believed to have whispered a few words before losing the ability to speak, but police have not yet released details of what was said. Detectives say Joseph is too young to be able to offer information. But they hope Abigail will be able to provide a detailed description of her attacker and guide them through the events leading to the attack. Police were last night still questioning a 28-year-old man and 29-year-old woman on suspicion of attempted murder after they gave themselves up at Leatherhead police station on Friday. The pair are understood to have produced a prepared statement which was read out to officers shortly before they were arrested. The man's blue Peugeot car has also been seized. The arrests followed an appeal for information about a couple seen driving a blue Peugeot close to the area where Abigail was stabbed.