Women were warned by police to be vigilant last night after it was confirmed that a body found in undergrowth was that of a missing student.It is believed that 23-year-old Finn Suvi Aronen was killed by a man who attacked three other women in the previous hour in east London. Aronen, a media studies student at the University of East London, was pounced on as she walked near Wanstead shortly before 6pm last Thurs day. Her mother called her mobile phone at 5.45pm and heard her shout: 'Get off! Don't hurt me!' before the line went dead. The police believe the killing is linked to three other attacks on women in the hour before Aronen's screams. Detective Chief Superintendent Shatford said: 'The attacker is totally indiscriminate. It is important for everyone in the area, particularly women, to be vigilant.' The three other attacks took place at 4.40pm, 5pm and 5.15pm, all in Wanstead. The attacker told his first victim, who was 44, that he was going to kill her as he dragged her along by her handbag. The bag split and he ran away. He pushed his fingers down the throat of the second woman, who is 80, but she bit his hand and he ran away. The last victim, aged, 56, was punched in the face before he ran away with her bag. The killing came as police officers questioned nearly 2,500 people as part of the Hannah Foster murder investigation in Hampshire. Around 100 extra officers were drafted in to carry out spot checks yesterday in Southsea and Southampton. Hannah was last seen at 10.50pm on 14 March when she waved goodbye to a friend getting on a bus in Highfield Lane, Portswood, Southampton. Her fully clothed body was found two days later in undergrowth in West End, on the rural outskirts of the city, about five miles from Hannah's home. Officers issued an appeal for information yesterday about two Asian men seen parking a dark-coloured saloon car in Richmond Gardens - which joins Hannah's home street, Grosvenor Road - between 11pm and 11.20pm that night. The car did a three-point turn before it was parked and the men, both in their twenties, walked off.