There ain't gonna be no war with Blunkett. So said Fred Broughton, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, during less fraught times last July.Back then, the home secretary had bounded into his new post and was brimming with ideas. Like most home secretaries before him, he'd set out a police reform agenda. And like every one before him, Mr Broughton had good reason to think the new boy would "talk the talk" and not "walk the walk". If so, he was horribly wrong. The next round of what has become a poisonous battle for the future of the police service starts today. The federation will demand wholesale changes to the pay and conditions package that its members so thoroughly rejected last week in a historic ballot. The two sides don't like each other and they don't trust each other, so progress could be slow. That Mr Blunkett has taken on a huge and important job, nobody could argue. The government regards police reform as the toughest nut to crack in the whole public services reform programme, and most officers, in their hearts, know that change is necessary and inevitable. But there is growing worry within senior police circles that Mr Blunkett's approach is doing him no favours. His blunderbuss tactics - designed, presumably, to show he's a tough man who means business - could be his undoing. Being macho with the Police Federation is one thing. But playing robocop with the commissioner of the Metropolitan police, Sir John Stevens, is something else entirely. Know thine friend, not just thine enemy, is the feeling at Scotland Yard, where officers are still smarting at the way Mr Blunkett treated the commissioner in a recent article in the London Evening Standard.Under the headline "Exclusive. Met chief told: sort out crime or I'll send in my own team", the article described how Mr Blunkett had "delivered an ultimatum to Scotland Yard's chief: sort out violent crime in London or face takeover." This came as news to Sir John, who had dined with the home secretary and other members of the Met's management board two days before the interview. Nothing was said then, or even hinted. The article was inevitably regarded as a challenge and a rebuke to the commissioner, who told colleagues that he was "somewhat perplexed" by its tone as well as its content. No explanation for the attack was offered by the home office as other newspapers picked up and ran with the story. The commissioner has now been given the rather feeble explanation that Mr Blunkett was misquoted. Not so, says the reporter who filed the story, David Taylor, who has the conversation on tape. The episode was probably ill-judged on two fronts. First, singling out the Met over the issue of street crime was a little unfair. The force is not the only one in England and Wales to have problems in this area, but it is the only one that has had to divert huge resources to anti-terrorism measures in the aftermath of September 11. Second, slighting the commissioner was just bad politics. There is no greater champion of police reform than Sir John. He and his deputy, Ian Blair, are desperate to shake up the Met and have unilaterally started to introduce some of the schemes that are contained in the police reform bill currently being considered by parliament; many of them were their ideas in the first place. Sir John has told the home secretary to use the Met as "a battering ram" for reform; both men know that where Scotland Yard leads, other forces will eventually follow. After last week's ballot in which 91% of rank-and-file officers rejected plans for a revamping of pay and conditions, the Home Office said it would have to make its case to officers directly. Going over the heads of federation officials - who, they say, are unwilling to provide leadership - is seen as the best way forward. But will junior officers listen to Mr Blunkett? It seems inconceivable. Would they listen to Sir John? They might. There is a broader problem. Even senior officers who agree with Mr Blunkett over reform have been irritated by the methods he is using. Jack Straw took time to get to know chief officers. Mr Blunkett hasn't. Perhaps it is not surprising that Glen Smyth, the chairman of the Met's Police Federation, has yet to be granted an audience with the home secretary, despite his repeated calls for a meeting. Mr Smyth is one of Mr Blunkett's fiercest critics and is seeking to go to the European court to challenge the laws which say the police cannot strike. But when a senior Met officer with credible hope of being the next commissioner privately admitted last Christmas that he hadn't even met Mr Blunkett, then something is awry. This officer believes that there must be reform, but admits to being suspicious about the Home Office because dialogue is so poor.In the past six months, chief officers have grown used to reading about Mr Blunkett's less than flattering views of policing in his frequent newspaper broadsides. These are usually followed by appearances in the media by the Home Office minister John Denham - dispatched, so it seems, to mop up the damage and smooth ruffled feathers. It's a clumsy "good cop, bad cop" routine that has not been greatly appreciated by the men and women who invented the technique. Sources close to Mr Blunkett have said that he doesn't want to fight with the police just for the sake of it and that blunt speaking at this stage is right and important. He expected this to be a bumpy period. However, if Mr Blunkett wants to avoid mass demonstrations and officers threatening to work to rule, he is going to need the support of the many chief constables who are in favour of what he is doing, but who find themselves defending their forces against unexpected and, they argue, unwarranted criticism. Without them, Mr Blunkett's police reform agenda is going to degenerate into a messy and unedifying battle of the bullies. · Nick Hopkins is the Guardian's crime correspondent nick.hopkins@theguardian.com