An international arrest warrant could this week be issued against a British man who skipped bail in The Gambia and has three times failed to return to the country for trial on charges that he raped a 10-year-old girl.John MacKintosh, 63, from Inverness, fled the West African country in June on a passport controversially issued to him by the British High Commissioner, and has been given until Wednesday to return for his adjourned hearing. MacKintosh's Scottish lawyer says his client is too ill to travel but he did not submit a doctor's certificate when he missed the last hearing on 21 July. The case, first revealed by The Observer , will mark a test of British political will to use the full powers of the Sexual Offences Act which came into law last year. It allows for suspected paedophiles to be extradited or prosecuted in Britain for sex crimes committed in other countries. Magistrate Moses Johnson-Richards said that if MacKintosh this week failed to turn up for a fourth time, he would issue a warrant for the Briton's arrest, and the Inspector-General of Gambia police would approach the Home Office to put extradition proceedings in motion. The magistrate has already said that if the extradition process fails he will open his files to British police. Ahead of the last adjournment of the case, MacKintosh's Scottish lawyer, Aamer Anwar, told journalists his client was too ill to travel and that he feared he would not get a fair hearing. But after MacKintosh failed for a third time to turn up at Kanifing magistrates court, near the capital, Banjul, on 21 July his Gambian lawyer, Ida Nying, said he had given no reason for his absence, despite being informed in 'very clear and self-explanatory terms' that he was due in court. She then said she was stepping down as his lawyer. At the same hearing, Mr Johnson-Richards jailed two Gambian men, Saikou Touray and Abdoulie Jalow, who stood £20,000 bail for MacKintosh before he skipped the country. The men are being held in Banjul State central prison and claim they were tricked into offering their property deeds as surety for MacKintosh by an official at the British High Commission. The Gambia, a poor West African country which receives twice-weekly charter flights from Britain, is trying to stem a growing trend in sex tourism while safeguarding the valuable foreign exchange it earns from visitors.MacKintosh, a frequent traveller to The Gambia for 10 years, was arrested on the outskirts of the capital on 16 May. He was taken into custody and his passport was locked in a police safe. After doctors examined the 10-year-old girl, MacKintosh was charged with sexual exploitation of a child. He denied the charge and was bailed to appear on 10 June. Just days before MacKintosh's trial was due to resume, however, Eric Jenkinson, the British High Commissioner in The Gambia, issued him with a new passport, allowing him to fly home. The Foreign Office argues that Jenkinson acted in good faith because MacKintosh's lawyers had told him the magistrate had ordered the passport to be released. Johnson-Richards says a verbal application was made for the passport but that he did not grant its release.