The death of a crown court judge in a garage fire after a row with his wife over a divorce is to be subjected to a new investigation, the lord chief justice, Lord Phillips, said yesterday.New evidence about the death of Andrew Chubb at his home in Westvale, near Chard, Somerset, in July 2001 had persuaded him to quash an inquest verdict of accidental death, Lord Phillips said.Concerns were raised by Kerry Sparrow, with whom Chubb had a two-year affair. Chubb, 58, whose career included the prosecution of Rosemary West, died less than an hour after arguing with his wife, Jennifer, over his request to end their 34-year marriage.Mrs Chubb had found out that month about the relationship between Chubb, who was assigned to Portsmouth crown court, and Ms Sparrow, a former legal executive. On July 27 he returned home to ask for a divorce. Shortly after the argument their garage burned down. "Judge Chubb's body, badly burned, was discovered in the debris," Lord Phillips said yesterday in a written judgment on the case.An inquest held in east Somerset in December 2001 found that on the balance of probability Chubb's death was accidental. Ms Sparrow challenged the finding.After a decision this year by Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, a review was carried out by Lord Phillips and Mr Justice Roderick Evans. In their ruling yesterday they said it would be "contrary to the interests of justice to leave undisturbed, in a case which has been the subject of wide public interest, a verdict which is based on only part of the relevant evidence - and which the balance of the relevant evidence suggests may be open to doubt".Ms Sparrow welcomed the decision. "I hope that it will allow all the evidence to come to light so that, at last, I may know precisely what happened to Andrew, and move on from this state of limbo in which I have been living all these years," she said through her solicitors, Bhatt Murphy.The judges described how Mrs Chubb's evidence was that her husband had arrived home about 7.30pm and announced that he thought they should get a divorce.He then went out into the garden, and later she went to the garage and saw him apparently giving attention to their sit-on mower. He came out of the garage and she told him they needed to discuss matters.After returning to the house she heard "a massive explosion" and saw the garage engulfed in flames. She called 999 and shouted for help from the neighbours.The coroner's postmortem report was criticised by a Home Office pathologist consulted by Ms Sparrow who said there was no justification for excluding the possibility that Chubb died before the fire. Lord Phillips and Mr Justice Roderick Evans said the coroner had dismissed the possibility that Chubb might have considered taking his own life but "there is now quite a body of evidence that suggests that the coroner may have been wrong".