Although most American fashions are rapidly imported to Britain - music, movies, junk food - there is one habit the UK has resisted: the easy availability of guns. Never for us, we swore, the spectacle of metal detectors at the doors of schools and teenagers being frisked by cops in body armour. And it has more or less worked. Most British kids are not packing heat.Or, as it turns out, not that kind of heat. Because it seems increasingly clear that what we have avoided with fire-arms is now being delivered through another weapon and, terrifyingly, one which is tougher to control. There have been 100 stabbings in London in the first five months of this year - including, in the past six days, the Oxford Street murder of Steven Bigby, 22, and the baker's shop killing of 16-year-old Jimmy Mizen, who now joins Stephen Lawrence and Damilola Taylor among the symbolic martyrs of a despairing era of street-life. Our biggest mistake was to assume guns are the greatest threat to life. Knives are easier to find - they are present in every kitchen - and simpler to use. It is impossible to improvise a gun from stuff found in the gutter or on a supermarket shelf, but a bottle can become a dagger with one smash. Gun control is difficult; knife control is all but impossible.A decade and a half after an ambitious young Labour shadow spokesman created a soundbite about tackling crime and the causes of crime, we see how problematic this formula is. For what are the causes of knife crime? Leaving aside the aforementioned cases, past examples suggest that stabbings of the young by the young result from some of these impulses: racism, theft, drug-dependency and an inchoate rage against the way life has turned out.Some of this - the supply of drugs, for instance - can be addressed through legislation and policing, although money and will is needed. But most other causes defy simple remedy. Studies suggest that fractured families and absent parents play a part in what Boris Johnson, elected on the night another London teenager was stabbed to death, called the "wrong choices" made by young murderers. But the state cannot reasonably control procreation or ban divorce, and so we are stuck with a culture in which there will be children who begin life as unwanted and rapidly become abandoned.Equally, possession resentment is a factor in the rise of crime by and against teenagers. The hopeless rage felt by young people in some places is encouraged by a society in which the poor are daily subjected to publicity about the lifestyles of the rich. But, as with family breakdown, this chasm between the super-haves and the have-nots - making a pedestrian as tempting to a robber as a shop once was - is a fact of the society we have made, and could only be altered by an improbable change in attitudes to redistributive taxation and conspicuous consumption.So, if the triggers cannot be switched off, the only solution is to try to drive knives from society. Already, stop-and-search squads have been put on the streets of London in a version of the contentious old "sus" laws. This, at least, is something practical that can be attempted: there is no good reason to carry blades. But the bitter conclusion is that anger and violence are inevitable; the only choice is the weapon with which the rage will be expressed. The US chose the gun; we got the knife.Because it is complex, expensive and perhaps impossible to tackle the causes of these crimes, we can only be tough on the crimes themselves. So we come, by another route, to the measures that we long despised in American society: police forcing teenagers against walls, scanners at the school gates. Even then, they can simply break a bottle instead.comment@theguardian.com