A father was yesterday convicted of causing the deaths of four of his children when the Land Rover he had "incompetently" modified plunged into a river.The court had heard that Nigel Gresham was driving the unroadworthy vehicle too fast when he crashed into the river Witham, Lincolnshire, killing Willow, two, Angel, four, Thor, six, and eight-year-old Keavy in September last year.Gresham, 37, bowed his head and several people in the public gallery wept as a jury delivered unanimous guilty verdicts on four counts of causing death by dangerous driving.Gresham's then partner, Sara Bolland, and their three other children were also in the four-wheel drive when a corroded bracket snapped as Gresham pulled on to a grass verge after meeting an oncoming vehicle; the Land Rover flipped over and rolled down a bank into water.Speaking outside Lincoln crown court after the verdict, Bolland said: "I don't think it matters what happened in the trial, I will never get to see or feel my sweet babies again. Nothing will ever bring them back. It doesn't matter how angry I am; it won't bring my babies back. Now all I ask is that we be left in peace to try to rebuild our lives to the best of our ability."The jury heard that the Land Rover, which was made up of parts from four different vehicles, had many "ill-judged" modifications designed to improve its off-road performance. Repairs and maintenance were also "incompetent".Sergeant Dave Kay, the senior investigating officer, said outside court that it was the worst maintained vehicle he had seen in 29 years of police service.About 30 defects were found after the collision, including a failing handbrake, worn rear brake drums and shoes, a loose steering wheel and mismatched calipers. Gresham, formerly of Chapel Hill, Lincolnshire, took parts from other vehicles to make repairs. The engine came from another vehicle, the gearbox from a friend's Land Rover and the rear axle from a fifth car. Its defects included a badly fitted offside rear wheel, misaligned and mismatched parts of the suspension, loose bolts, an overadjusted steering boxand a loose driver's seat."I think his extreme ignorance meant he was not as competent a mechanic as he thought he was," Kay said. "I don't think he ever intended to cause harm to his children, but he was completely reckless because of the state of his vehicle. He put them in grave danger ... The Land Rover was completely unroadworthy."He welcomed the jury's decision, but added: "There is no joy or celebration, as four innocent young children lost their lives and a family has been left completely devastated. I want to send a powerful message to all drivers about taking responsibility when behind the wheel. That is both in the way they drive and the maintenance of their vehicle."Judge Michael Heath adjourned sentencing until 23 January and granted Gresham bail, but warned that this did not mean he would not receive a prison term. He was disqualified from driving.Lincolnshire crown prosecutor Jaswant Kaur Narwal said the decision to prosecute Gresham had not been taken lightly, given the deaths of the children and the loss Gresham suffered as their father. "This is a very sad case and we spent a great deal of time reviewing the evidence and considering the public interest before making the decision to prosecute," she said.The Crown Prosecution Service had received expert reports on the Land Rover which made clear the vehicle had not been roadworthy and that a "careful and competent" driver would have known it was dangerous to drive, Narwal said."In the past, the approach was that the driver had suffered such a great personal loss that it would be oppressive or insensitive to prosecute the driver for the bad driving offence which led to the death, unless the circumstances were such that a prosecution was necessary."The decision now is that a prosecution would normally take place in cases of causing death by dangerous driving subject to circumstances that would make it oppressive or insensitive."Police investigated the MoT testing station that passed the Land Rover – with the defective bracket in place but the CPS decided there was not enough evidence to prosecute.