The mother of a 17-month-old boy who died from a catalogue of terrible injuries has been arrested on suspicion of his murder, along with her boyfriend.Child abuse officers are now investigating the murder of the toddler, who was brought to hospital by his 25-year-old mother on August 3 with a broken back, fractured ribs and at least two fingernails missing. He died an hour later. It is believed he was on the "at-risk" register of Haringey social services, north London, the same department criticised over the murder of Victoria Climbié in 2000.A Metropolitan police spokesman said officers were called to the hospital after concerns were raised by staff.His mother was arrested at the hospital, followed shortly after by her 31-year-old boyfriend. The couple, from Tottenham in north London, have been released on bail until later this month pending further inquiries. They and the child have not been named to protect the identities of surviving siblings.A postmortem examination carried out at Great Ormond Street Hospital last Monday proved inconclusive and further tests are now being carried out. Officers from the child abuse investigation command have begun an investigation and are treating the death as suspicious. The child is understood to have been on the "at-risk" register of Haringey council's social services. A spokesman said yesterday he could not confirm this while the police investigation continued, but added that the council was launching its own inquiry.He said: "We can confirm that an independent multi-agency serious case review has been commissioned by the local Safeguarding Children Board, as is routine in circumstances like this."Victoria Climbié died aged eight after months of torture and neglect at the hands of her great aunt and the woman's boyfriend.She was sent to Europe by her parents in the hope of a better education than in her native Ivory Coast. Instead she was kept prisoner in a squalid Tottenham flat by her great aunt, Marie Therese Kouao, and the woman's partner, Carl Manning. Kouao struck Victoria on a daily basis with a shoe, a coat hanger and a wooden spoon and hit her toes with a hammer. Manning beat her with a bicycle chain.In a public inquiry after her death, Haringey council's social services department was accused of serious failings - along with departments in three other boroughs as well as three housing departments, two hospitals, two Metropolitan police child protection teams, and a specialist centre run by the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.Lord Laming's report revealed that, despite spending her last days in an unheated bathroom, tied up in a bin bag, lying in her own urine and excrement and "being treated worse than a dog", the social services department formally closed the little girl's case on the day she died. The inquiry also found that care workers missed at least 12 chances to save her. The report into the Climbié case led to an overhaul of child protection procedures.The death of the 17-month-old boy comes just after social workers were criticised in court for failing to save four-year-old Leticia Aaliyah Wright, who was tortured to death by her mother and her boyfriend. Sharon Wright and Peter McKenzie-Seaton were jailed for life on Friday. Leticia was found by paramedics bruised and naked in the family's Huddersfield living room. She had suffered more than 100 injuries to her head and abdomen. Two social workers visited the house and met Leticia and her mother but days later her file was closed.