The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and Clarifications column, Tuesday May 20, 2003We gave Tony Lloyd as the MP for Stretford. That is the name of his former constituency; his present is Manchester Central. The MP for Stretford and Urmston is Beverley Hughes.-------------------------------The government is expected to announce tomorrow that it will introduce a new offence of corporate manslaughter in a move which will see companies held to account for deaths caused through gross management negligence. The home secretary, David Blunkett, will make clear the government's intention to introduce the new criminal offence this year as a means of defusing a rebellion by up to 80 Labour MPs who are pressing the changes in amendments to the flagship criminal justice bill which starts its final stages in the Commons today. The development was last night heralded by victims' groups as a breakthrough. Home Office ministers have acknowledged that the introduction of a new offence of corporate manslaughter was a 1997 manifesto commitment. Tony Lloyd, the Labour MP for Stretford, said that more than 2,000 workers and members of the public have died in work-related incidents since 1997 as well as the Southall, Paddington, Hatfield and Potters Bar rail disasters. During that period only four small firms and two directors have been convicted of the offence of manslaughter. "Last year more than 600 people were killed in Britain as a result of workplace accidents. We know that most of these are down to serious negligence. We have to concentrate the minds of the worst employers that when they kill people they ought to go to prison," said Mr Lloyd. The new offence could mean that a director of a corporation would be guilty of corporate killing if a management failure by the company were identified as one of the causes of death and that failure constituted conduct far below what could reasonably be expected. Louise Christian, a solicitor who represents the relatives of victims of the Potters Bar train crash, said: "This is very good news. The families of people who have been killed in disasters really do want it made easier for those responsible to be prosecuted. We need the law to be sorted out." Ms Christian said she would be especially encouraged if the new laws made it easier to bring individual directors, not just companies, to court. "Fining companies is not enough. It is essential that directors can be prosecuted," she said. Carol Bell, a survivor of the Southall rail crash, said: "This is fantastic news. Companies and directors have been getting away with it for far too long. It's been incredibly frustrating trying to bring prosecutions against the likes of Railtrack." The government's decision will cause consternation among employer bodies and companies which thought they had seen off the idea. The Law Commission recommended as long ago as 1996 that a new offence of "corporate killing" should be created and apply to large companies as well as small firms. An offence of corporate manslaughter already exists, but to make it stick prosecutors have to prove that a senior individual within the company has been grossly negligent. The new law would make clear that if a company failed to ensure the health and safety of its staff or the public, that would be regarded as a cause of death even though the immediate blame lies with one individual employee. The CBI, which insists that health and safety legislation already offers adequate protection, said the proposed new offences could undermine decision-making within companies. "A director who faced the possibility of prison would be very reluctant to take decisions," a spokesman said. But George Cox, head of the Institute of Directors, backed the idea: "The alternative avenue is pursuing individual directors which is almost impossible even when people have a genuine grievance." Mr Blunkett's move comes as leaders of Britain's lawyers protest in a letter to the Guardian today that his raft of new measures announced in the past fortnight will escape scrutiny by MPs. The Bar Council complained that the 200-plus Home Office amendments tabled for debate today are equivalent to a new criminal justice bill and wants to see the bill sent back to a Commons committee for scrutiny.