A Commons revolt over the government's criminal justice bill loomed last night after Chris Mullin, Labour chairman of the cross-party home affairs committee and a former minister, warned that he would vote against the bill unless the proposal to allow defendants' previous conduct to be disclosed in court were dropped.David Blunkett, the home secretary, has promised to discuss safeguards to meet criticisms of the bill made by Mr Mullin's committee. But Mr Mullin told the Commons: "They will have to be pretty mighty safeguards, and it's quite hard for me to imagine what they could be ... I have to say I will not support this bill on third reading if it still contains this measure." Earlier the committee had warned that some proposals, including the disclosure of previous convictions, would in its view shift the balance too far toward the state. In a series of detailed criticisms following a brief inquiry, the committee also highlighted concern at the disclosure of the names of defence witnesses in advance of a trial, saying it would allow the police and prosecution to put them under pressure. It also pressed the home secretary to extend reporting restrictions that give anonymity to rape victims to those accused of sexual offences, on the grounds that mistakes were made in this area but the damage to those acquitted could be permanent. MPs also wanted to see a ban on newspapers paying witnesses in criminal trials. But they backed the bill's plans to restrict the right to a jury trial in some complex fraud cases and where there is evidence of jury tampering, and to abolish the "double jeopardy" rule, as well as the proposed sentencing regime for criminals, and the transfer of charging from the police to the crown prosecution service. Mr Blunkett said that the bill, which reforms the courts process, would help with the "search for truth" at the heart of the criminal justice system and rebalance it in favour of victims. Mr Blunkett held out the promise of compromise with "people of goodwill", and made one immediate concession, accepting the committee's call for a code of conduct to protect defence witnesses from intimidation by the police. He also announced that parliament, through the home affairs committee, would have more say in recommending the length of sentences. It would have input into the decisions of the sentencing guidelines council, headed by the lord chief justice and made up of judiciary representatives, which will set out comprehensive guidelines in a bid to reduce disparity in sentencing. Judges would have discretion to depart from the sentence guidelines, but would have to explain their reasons. Earlier, another outspoken Labour critic, the lawyer Bob Marshall-Andrews, challenged Tony Blair on the bill, asking him if '"the stock of human evil" would be reduced by undermining civil liberties. Mr Blair said that he "passionately" believed reform was long overdue. He told MPs: "We must protect civil liberties, but we must also protect the civil liberties of people to go around free from fear." Oliver Letwin, the shadow home secretary, warned that Tories would oppose the ending of double jeopardy and the changes to the right to jury trial. He said the move could make a precedent that later would be used to erode the scope of jury trial and to enlarge the scope of trial by judge. He added: "I am unashamed in wishing to defend the principle of trial by jury even against slight inroads that may appear unobjectionable." On the disclosure of previous convictions, Mr Letwin said he was particularly concerned at the disclosure of previous acquittals as well. "This fair takes the breath away," he said, asking how someone could get a fair trial if they were subject to "character assassination" by establishing a "disposition toward criminality".