With the failure to reach verdicts in two high-profile terror trials in the last two months, jury trial in such cases is being questioned.This morning, certain senior officials and government ministers probably feel like the admiral at the battle of Jutland who said "there seems to be something wrong with our bloody ships today". We have become used to the fact that on occasion obscure points of human rights law can scupper what look like common sense procedures – deporting Islamist extremists for instance. But juries are a different matter – they are held to embody the distilled fairness and impartial judgment of all of us. If they are having difficulty reaching verdicts maybe there is something amiss.Juries are central to English justice. Here it's 12 good men/women and true who ultimately decide criminal trials – not judges or panels of judges like the dodgy Europeans. We are proud of this. During the troubles in Northern Ireland we were forced to suspend jury trial in the province after a programme of intimidation and murder by terrorists. We had little choice, but the reputation of justice suffered nonetheless and the IRA made great hay in terms of propaganda from the so-called Diplock courts where a judge sat alone (abolished in 2007).If on occasion the prosecution case is not as strong as initially thought and the jury won't buy it – all well and good. That is how the system should work. Juries are not meant to be comprised of 12 Jeremy Clarkson think-alikes. The authorities will have to take it on the chin. But juries repeatedly not being convinced "beyond reasonable doubt" by what the prosecution (and the intelligence community and a large chunk of the general public) consider to be strong cases is a different matter altogether.When the verdicts came in yesterday in the airline plot trial (which the jury, despite convicting three men for conspiracy to murder were not convinced was about airliners at all) the judge complimented the jury on their efforts in effusive not just polite terms. So he was satisfied that they had done their duty. I am sure he was right. But have the authorities given any thought to the sheer complexity and grinding detail that some present-day juries have to absorb? Is there a way of making some of these cases less complicated and time-consuming without loading the dice against the defendants?Finally I wonder if modern juries are not susceptible to a form of silent, subconscious intimidation. After all, when they leave the secure environment of Woolwich crown court some of them might not feel that they are resuming their lives in a well-ordered society. And as we have discovered in recent months, they can't necessarily be confident that their identities and addresses will remain secret for long.