It might sound like the basis for a gritty blockbuster film but it's true. Irish peacemakers have been training a team of covert negotiators to coordinate a ceasefire among warring drug gangs in the inner city streets and prisons of the West Midlands. The initiative has been launched in direct response to the severity of extreme violence being used by gangs to resolve disputes and the threat posed to the public.It has been launched as four defendants face charges for the murders of two teenage partygoers in Aston, Birmingham, shot outside a new year party in 2003. The police believe the young women were the innocent victims of a feud between rival gangs.According to ex-policeman Kirk Dawes, co-founder of the new team, there is a complex subculture of drugs, gangs and guns with some gangsters using increasing levels of extreme violence almost as a trademark. The bid to bring a ceasefire to the feuds which continue to dog the city, such as the one between the Burger Bar Boys and Johnson Crew, will see seven negotiators trained by veterans of the Irish conflict on call 24 hours a day targeting key gang members in a bid to draw up peace contracts between rivals.The identities of the handpicked team remain under wraps, but all are described as having worked with gangs. "The make up of the team is one where we have representatives from the street, the church and former public authority employees," says co-founder Mr Dawes, a Wolverhampton-born ex-undercover detective who, together with other members of the team, has spearheaded the work."For instance, we have a former bishop from the black-led churches, a former police officer, and yes two others who in their past have had gang affiliations."Each member of the West Midlands Mediation and Transformation Services has received accredited training from the conflict veterans group Northern Ireland Mediation. It has been publicly funded and works under the governance of Aston Community Education."Put simply our job is to negotiate with armed combatants who believe they have a vested interest in killing each other," says Mr Dawes."We have no investigative role, our role is to try and remove the threat of extreme violence in the city. We are concerned only with the safety of the public and of those individuals involved."The launch of the project is the culmination of a decade's work for Mr Dawes who last year received the Queen's police medal for his work in the arena of community cohesion, drugs, gangs and guns.As part of the research, Mr Dawes travelled to the US to visit Newark, New Jersey, where he witnessed peace contracts between gangs where disputes were no longer resolved with acts of random violence.But it was a visit to Northern Ireland that Mr Dawes says makes the mediation service a very British solution to a UK gang problem."The decision to enlist the help of Irish peace makers followed extensive research and meetings with key individuals involved in similar processes across the globe. We considered them best able to provide the training required based on their extensive knowledge and experience."In the perfect world we would be able to approach one person who was the gang leader. but in reality the relationships and loyalties within a cohesive group are far more complicated," he says.Mr Dawes says that race and religion aside the structures of the Irish paramilitary groups were almost identical to the Burger Bar Boys and Johnson Crew who have gained national notoriety."One is hierarchical in nature with a strong line of command, the other much more loosely connected. But both now stretch over some three generations. We have to get those lines of commands or cohesive groups working with us. We are not anti-gang, but anti-violence."The Irish experience was very important to what we are doing. We saw what they were doing in the prisons bringing former enemies face to face, role playing conflict. People have a lot of time to think and reflect on their lives behind bars. It is a time of potential change."Mr Dawes, who spent 15 years undercover, says UK based gangs are now not only vying with each other, but international gangs who have upped the ante in the use of violence."We know that there are at least two Yardie gangs working in and around Birmingham, these are international organisations making phenomenal amounts of money, who use extreme violence almost as a trademark."It is a highly competitive business with a lot of talented young men, many from good families, trying to rise through the ranks. Settling a dispute on someone else's behalf has become one way of making a name for you," he says."Often disputes can be minor, but its impact can be fatal. We know that the only people who can manage or resolve this are the protagonists themselves. We are here to assist in that process to effectively smooth a path where people learn to accommodate each other."The project has won the full support of the West Midlands police, the city council and community groups, but does, as Mr Dawes concedes, pose something of a compromise.For the first time it recognises the gang structures, loyalties and influences without judgment and even offers a forum of negotiation."Gangs exist it is a fact of life," says Mr Dawes. "For some this may be a compromise but I believe it is a necessary one if we are to save the reputation of the city and more importantly young lives."