A year ago, Downview in Surrey was regarded as one of Britain's most successful prisons. It was renowned for its pioneering drugs rehabilitation programme, and men from other jails sought to be transferred there.Its conversion to a women's prison this autumn threw up a string of problems. Critics claim the speed of the changes means that inmate facilities are inadequate, and staff have not received sufficient training. There have been four suicide attempts. There is also the unsettling effect on the 300-plus men suddenly transferred to other prisons around the country. Crispin Blunt, Conservative MP for Reigate in Surrey, yesterday described the conversion as a shambles, and said the prison service should have acted sooner to cope with the increasing number of women prisoners. The board of visitors accused the service of "gross mismanagement". Housed in a converted mental hospital, Downview had built a reputation as an enlightened prison for category C and D male prisoners. A drugs programme for addicted prisoners that has been taken up by other prisons, was founded in a caravan in the Downview grounds, and the prison enjoyed close links with the local community. In July the prison service announced Downview was to be a prison for women. Staff and inmates presumed the move was months, perhaps years, away. Within five weeks prisoners, and most of the officers, had been moved. By September the first women were arriving. At first conditions seemed adequate. Three of the four wings were comfortable enough. Cells in D-wing, nicknamed "the Ritz" by inmates, have televisions and offer a view over fields. C-wing is different. Plans were afoot to demolish the 19th century building and replace it with a modern one suitable for holding prisoners on remand. However the numbers arriving, many on matters relating directly or indirectly to drugs, meant the 19th century building remained in use. One observer reported that two of the floors were "filthy", with roosting pigeons and rotting window sills. Some bathrooms are still fitted with male urinals.Its new inmates are angry. One told a recent visitor: "If the prison is not up and running, why the hell have we been put in here? We have tried asking the staff, but they don't seem to know either. No one has got any answers."Many complained of lack of privacy, especially as there were builders on the site. "Men are walking by our windows throughout the day, and we haven't got a curtain to put in front of us while we go to the toilet. There are builders everywhere, and they haven't given us a curtain to put up against the window to stop people looking in. The living conditions are just terrible." A third inmate said: "Staff are doing all they can, but they don't give us answers because they don't know themselves." In a report the board of visitors claimed the prison service had caused chaos and had shown "total lack of concern, and indeed contempt, for human issues"; it had failed to act until the situation had become urgent. The board's chairman, Simon Morrison, said the three women who had tried to commit suicide had all been held in C-wing. One had tried to take her life twice. Mr Blunt, a member of the shadow frontbench, said Downview was suffering because of "catastrophic mismanagement" by the service. He said it had been clear for at least four years that, nationally, the number of women prisoners was increasing. To suggest there was a sudden crisis was misleading. Mr Blunt said: "It's disgraceful that the prison service wants the judiciary to change its sentencing to fit in with the shambles it is creating." The service has acknowledged that the conversion was not ideal but claimed the alternative was to hold women in police cells or disperse them around the country. A spokeswoman said yesterday that conditions in C-wing and concerns about staff training were being addressed.