It's not often these days that feminists get to celebrate successes, so I'm more than a little surprised to be able to report that over the past couple of weeks there have been two significant results for women. The first came last Friday in the high court when Ealing council withdrew from the Southall Black Sisters (SBS) case, and the second happened earlier this week when justice minister Maria Eagle announced that proposed reforms to the UK murder laws will be published next Monday. Why is the second one particularly significant for women? Because under the new proposals men will no longer be able to cite "nagging" as an excuse for killing their wives and expect to get a reduced sentence out of it.It's actually thanks to SBS, along with other women's campaigning groups, that the law on homicide is now up for review. It was SBS that took up the case of Kiranjit Ahluwalia after she was given a life sentence in 1989 for murdering her husband Deepak; Ahluwalia had suffered years of violence and abuse at Deepak's hands, and it was because of the high profile given to her case, and those of Sara Thornton and Emma Humphreys, that the idea of cumulative provocation came to be more widely understood. Although ultimately Ahluwalia was released on the grounds that she was suffering from diminished responsibility at the time of the killing, the appeal court heard compelling evidence about how the cumulative impact of Deepak Ahluwalia's abuse had led to Kiranjit's actions, and how even though there was a pause between his violent behaviour towards her and her subsequent retaliation on the night she set him on fire, her actions were still nevertheless the result of his provocation, and not due to any cold and calculated pre-planned assault.However, despite the increased awareness of how and why abused women sometimes come to kill their perpetrators, the law as always has been a long time catching up. Provocation is still only accepted as a defence when it can be shown that the victim behaved in a way that caused the perpetrator to suddenly lose control of themselves, hence its use by men who have claimed that their wives were either "nags" or "adulteresses," the classic "nagging and shagging defence." "I couldn't help it m'lud," these men cry as the judge nods solemnly in sympathy. "It was the only way I could shut her up." Women who have killed their partners on the other hand, have tended to do so after a long-term build-up of terror, brought about by years of abuse and threats made against them.Because of this difference in the way men and women respond, and the ways laws were traditionally written in men's favour, the "provocation" defence has thus enabled abusive men to have their charges reduced to manslaughter and their sentences correspondingly shortened, whereas female victims of abuse have had to face charges of murder, and the inevitable life sentences that such a charge brings. Next Monday's proposals should hopefully see all that change.In 2006 the Law Commission published its report on the murder laws, Murder, Manslaughter and Infanticide, which argued that: "A particular anomaly is that D is entitled to have evidence that he or she was provoked to lose self-control put before the jury no matter how unlikely it is that the defence will succeed. Thus, if D claims that he was provoked to lose his self-control by V's failure to cook his steak medium rare as ordered, the defence has to be put to the jury even though it has no merit and ought to be rejected. By way of contrast, if instead of being provoked, D's killing was a fear-driven overreaction to a threat of future serious violence, he or she has no defence to murder at all, however well-founded the fear. The courts have declined to create or extend a partial defence to cover such cases."Over the years there have been numerous cases that illustrate this point. At the same time as Sara Thornton was facing a life sentence for killing her alcoholic husband for example, Joseph McGrail received a suspended sentence for kicking and killing his alcoholic partner; in the words of the judge: "This lady would have tried the patience of a saint." Similarly, in 1987 Thomas Corlett (pdf) was given three years for manslaughter after his wife moved the mustard pot to the wrong side of the table; Corlett claimed in his defence: "She knew I liked my newspaper on one side of my plate and my mustard on the other." The trial judge obviously sympathised, and later claimed that Corlett was "a hard-working man who snapped after skivvying after his wife for years". Meanwhile Bisla Singh got away with a suspended sentence after he strangled his "nagging" wife in a bid to shut her up; Singh walked free from the courtroom with the judge's "you have suffered" ringing reassuringly in his ears.As the MP Harry Cohen said in a House of Commons debate on this issue as long ago as 1994: "It has been obvious for years that the law operates two different systems when deciding what is provocation for men and what is provocation for women." Or as the Law Commission puts it: "the requirement of a loss of self-control has been widely criticised as privileging men's typical reactions to provocation over women's typical reactions. Women's reactions to provocation are less likely to involve a "loss of self-control", as such, and more likely to be comprised of a combination of anger, fear, frustration and a sense of desperation. This can make it difficult or impossible for women to satisfy the loss of self-control requirement, even where they otherwise deserve at least a partial defence."Well not any more it won't. As Julie Bindel pointed out in Wednesday's Guardian: "The defences available to women on trial for murder who have killed a partner as a result of domestic violence are to be widened and clarified; whereas men who kill their wives claiming that they were provoked into it because of her "nagging" or alleged infidelity will find that they have far less sympathy from the courts."It's taken years of campaigning and awareness-raising to get to this point, in fact the review of the murder law is the first for over half a century (pdf). While the proposals will be out to consultation until October, at the end of the process we should eventually end up with a new set of laws that finally provide justice for the women who deserve it, and an end to the disgusting spectacle that sees some men literally getting away with murder.