Prosecuting counsel will have the chance for the first time to tell judges how long they think convicted murderers who face a mandatory life sentence should serve, under new Home Office proposals published yesterday.The amendments to the criminal justice bill, to be voted on by MPs early next week, will bring prosecuting lawyers closer to the American practice under which counsel can "demand" that a certain sentence is passed by the court. But judges are to get much wider discretion than was originally thought in setting the minimum term or tariff that a murderer sentenced to mandatory life will face. The government's amendments to the bill list 14 circumstances that may be taken into account as aggravating or mitigating factors by the judge when setting the minimum term. The home secretary, David Blunkett, has set out a three-tier approach to sentencing murderers including a "whole life" sentence for terrorists and child killers; a minimum of 30 years for murdering a police officer or a contract killing and a minimum of 15 years for other types of murder. The detailed amendments show that judges can treat these "principles" only as "starting points" and can vary them as long as they spell out their reasons for doing so in open court and in ordinary language. The mitigating factors which may lead to a lesser minimum term being set include mercy killings, self-defence, lack of premeditation, the mental capacity and the age of the offender. It could mean that the sentences handed out by judges may be little different from the more lenient practice guidelines issued last year by the lord chief justice, Lord Woolf, rather than the harsher "starting points" laid down by Mr Blunkett. Judges will also have to take account of aggravating factors such as a significant degree of planning, mental and physical suffering inflicted on the victim before death, an abuse of a position of trust, and whether the victim was vulnerable because of their age or disability. Judges will also be able to pass longer sentences in cases where the victim was "providing a public service or performing a public duty". This means that the murderer of a doctor or a nurse on duty will face a heavier sentence along with the murderer of a police or prison officer. The legislation specifies that the latter must normally face a minimum of 30 years. Lord Falconer, the criminal justice minister, said that while prosecuting counsel would not be able to call for a specific sentence they would for the first time be able to tell judges what range of sentence they thought would fall within the guidelines for the particular case. He said: "At the moment the prosecutor does not play a part in determining what the sentence is. We envisage a process where the defendant has been convicted, he will address the court on the application of the primary principles. "He will not be calling for a specific sentence. He will be able to point to the guidelines which make a crime fall into a category, the particular tariff and the areas of mitigation." Lord Falconer said, for example, in the case of the killing of an off-duty police officer with a gun the prosecution would be able to point to the 30 year minimum for the murder of a police officer and point out that the use of a gun should increase the sentence. New amendments to the criminal justice also published yesterday implemented the government's promise to bring in a five-year mandatory minimum sentence for anyone caught in unauthorised possession of a banned gun. At present the average sentence for illegal gun possession is 18 months.