Police are testing high-powered "water pistols" as a means of quelling rioters following a summer of disorder on British streets.Officers in West Yorkshire are testing a stainless steel water gun, which is commonly used in America as a fire extinguisher for fighting forest fires and blazes in oilwells. It fires using a pistol grip and trigger, propelling a mist of tiny water droplets at speeds of up to 248mph. The German-made Ifex 3000 impulse extinguisher is already in use in this country by the prison service to quell riots in jails. It has not yet been used by West Yorkshire police for operational purposes. In July, more than 300 officers from the force were injured during riots in Bradford. The water guns would be used to put out petrol bombs and vehicles which had been set alight. They would not be directly fired at people, but at the ground to disperse rioters. The dual chambered gun of the Ifex 3000 Impulse extinguisher releases compressed air into its water supply forcing a quart of water out at nearly 500 ft a second. Tiny mist droplets, 20 to 200 microns in size, quickly absorb heat and the instantaneous steam conversion deprives the fire of oxygen. The gun has a range of up to 45 ft. The water for the cannon can be carried in a tank on the officer's back. Inspector Peter Chapman of West Yorkshire police told Police Review magazine that the force was searching for less lethal options for riot control. Police forces across the country are also considering a number of alternatives to live ammunition after 13 civilians have been shot dead in Britain since 1995. The Metropolitan police is hoping to bring electric stun guns into use by Christmas, and the Northamptonshire force is already training its officers how to use them. The weapon concerned - known as an air taser - fires two darts which sent electromagnetic signals down the victim's central nervous system to overpower them. Another possibility is a glue gun, which immobilises people with a pellet of compressed glue which expands to 30 times its size and covers them in sticky foam. Beanbag guns that fire padded baton rounds are also being considered, as are laser dazzlers which temporarily blind people. The importance of finding a non-lethal alternative to guns was highlighted in July by the case of Andrew Kernan, who was shot dead by police in Liverpool as he brandished a samurai sword. The 37-year-old, who suffered from mental illness, was killed after ignoring calls to drop the sword.