When 16-year-old Abukar Mahamed was chased by a gang on bikes, shot and left to die in a south London estate last Thursday, he became the fifth teenager to be gunned down on the capital's streets since January.Those five deaths are not the only frightening statistic: there have been more than 3,500 gun incidents in London over the past 12 months; thousands of guns are said to be on the streets; the capital has more than 200 gangs; the average age of black Londoners murdered by a gun is 19; the average age of black Londoners charged with murder using a gun is also 19; on top of the five gun victims, nine other under-18s have been stabbed to death in London this year.An increasingly lucrative drug trade has led some dealers to protect their stock with guns and, thanks to some potent influences in music and film, they have become essential accessories for some young people: perhaps a symptom of the wider breakdown of traditional respect for authority and disapproval of criminality. It is also hard to ignore that the boroughs with the most gun murders, Lambeth, Hackney and Southwark, are also among the most deprived areas in the country.In the face of this proliferation, there are more than 80 youth projects tackling gun violence in London, supported by councils and the Metropolitan police.Some aim to divert young people away from drugs and crime by showing a realistic portrayal of the issues though film, plays and workshops. Others work directly with young people already involved in gangs.A London Gangs, Guns and Weapons Forum, chaired by Lee Jasper, the mayor of London's director for equalities and policing, aims to improve relationships between statutory agencies and grassroots organisations working with young people.Hackney is home to a particularly deprived area of estates around Lower Clapton Road dubbed 'murder mile', notorious for gangland shootings and providing the backdrop for the 2005 film Bullet Boy.There, the council has spent £494,704 on gun prevention projects including a mobile gang intervention team that works with school pupils to reduce gang involvement and helps young people leave gangs. There are similar projects in Lambeth and Southwark.But given the spate of murders so far this year, and the frequent threats and harassment experienced in communities that are not reported to the police, many are unconvinced these initiatives are effective."The main problem is that, in many areas, prevention work is only supported for a few months and long-term funding is always an issue," says Lucy Cope, who founded the Mothers Against Guns campaign group after her son, Damian, was shot dead on a night out in central London five years ago."Tony Blair also promised education, education, education, but who is doing anything to educate our young people about the dangers of guns and gangs? Young people don't understand the real extent of what they can get into."She believes the status quo is unacceptable. She wants the police and councils to support effective initiatives that stop young people getting sucked into gun culture."I fear for the future of a lot of young people," she says. "They need sustainable activities - I'm not talking about one or two music sessions like what is usually on offer - but activities to give people skills so they feel they have real options that don't involve crime. We are facing a serious epidemic and we need to act quickly."There are glimmers of hope. The number of gun incidents reported to the police in London has actually fallen 2.2% over the past 12 months; in Hackney incidents have fallen by 35%.But those statistics are just a glimmer. There's not much optimism in the mind of Darryl, 34, from Hackney's Clapton Park Estate, who used to be part of a gang but now runs workshops examining why people carry weapons."Just because the number of reports to the police has gone down, it doesn't mean the problem is getting better. People are still getting killed," he says. "Gangstas rule in some areas. People round here know about them but they won't tell the police because of what might happen. There are so many weapons out there that people have started carrying guns personalised in different colours - just to be different."Mr Jasper says: "We need to tackle low levels of educational attainment and youth unemployment, particularly among black young people, to eliminate gun crime. We also need to look at the failure of local authorities to invest in youth services."London's mayor Ken Livingstone has recently pledged £20m to set up a network of centres providing activities for young people to help stem the rising tide of gun and knife crime in the city."That'll probably mean a single centre for somewhere like Hackney for a couple of years which won't make any real difference," says Darryl. "There still won't be much to do and young people will get involved in guns. What we really need are some opportunities and a level playing field. Crime becomes less attractive if you can afford to live."One youth worker, who did not wish to be named, said the streets would not become safer until there was a halt on the flow of guns and replicas into the country and more employment."We really have to examine where these guns have come from and look beyond the specific incidents to the environment where these incidents are more common. Councils and the police are not cottoning on to the fact that people need sustainable employment. Only half the job is being done: more jobs would go a long way to improving things. People would feel they have options. That is the key to it all."