Sion Jenkins who has served six years of a life sentence for the murder of his teenager foster daughter Billie-Jo won his appeal at the High Court in London today.Three judges ruled that his original 1998 conviction was "unsafe" after hearing fresh scientific evidence, but ordered that the 46-year-old former deputy head should be re-tried for the murder. Jenkins, sitting in the dock, showed no emotion as the judges announced their decision. The ruling means that, in the eyes of the law, Jenkins is now "innocent until proved guilty". But he will still remain on remand in prison pending a bail hearing in two weeks.Lord Justice Rose said: "The offence of murder here alleged is of the gravest and in our judgement the public interest requires that a jury should decide the matter on the basis of all the evidence now available to the extent that it is called at retrial by the prosecution or defence."Neil O'May, solicitor for Jenkins, said: "Sion Jenkins is delighted that the court has quashed his conviction, having decided that the original verdict of the jury was unsafe.""The court has decided on a retrial in front of a new jury. He knows this is the first step to clear his name and he knows that a jury will deliver the right verdict that he did not kill Billie-Jo." Jenkins, was convicted at Lewes Crown Court in June 1998 of battering Billie Jo with an 18-inch metal tent spike as she was painting a patio door at the family home in Hastings, East Sussex, in February1997.At the original trial it was alleged that, during a three-minute visit to the house, Jenkins had had an argument with the teenager, lost his temper, hit her over the head up to 10 times and then driven off on a "spurious" shopping trip to a DIY store with two of his four natural daughters, Lottie and Annie. The case against Jenkins was founded on evidence of more than 150 microscopic spots of Billie-Jo's blood discovered on his clothing. But today Lord Justice Rose said the court had heard fresh scientific evidence which undermined the opinion of experts at the trial and the earlier appeal hearing that the blood droplets could not have been caused by exhalation. This showed that, at some time after the beginning of the attack, Billie-Jo's upper airway was blocked and that pressure in her lungs built up behind the blockage. This meant that blood droplets could have been exhaled "passively" when her body was moved by her foster father. Lawyers for Jenkins also claimed he was denied a fair trial because two vital witnesses - his daughters Lottie and Annie - had been turned against him by their mother and the police. Jenkins claimed that defence lawyers at his original trial six years ago were deterred from calling the two girls to give evidence because of indications that they were hostile towards him. During the appeal the girls were called by the defence, while his ex-wife was called by the Crown. Now 18, Charlotte flew from Tasmania to appear in court while a taped police interview with her elder sister was shown to the appeal judges.  Giving evidence two weeks ago, Charlotte broke down and there was much confusion over what the young girls had seen. She was asked if she remembered telling her mother that she "knew" her father had killed Billie. She replied: "I may have because I was confused and kept changing my mind. I can't remember. "I was confused, remembering the day, wondering whether or not to believe what was in the papers, things like that."  The appeal court also heard extracts of two taped police interviews with Annie. When asked by the police whether she had told her mother she "knew Sion and Billie-Jo had an argument earlier that day", she said she could not remember saying that. She added that she could not recall Billie-Jo particularly winding her father up on the day she was killed. "I don't remember dad being cross with Billie-Jo," she said in relation to his alleged reaction over a row the two girls had about painting the patio doors.