The hunt for Mark Hobson is the first major test of a small, mostly rural police force in Britain since the Soham tragedy, which forced the issue to the top of the national crime agenda.North Yorkshire's senior commanders deliberately play on the "Heartbeat factor" - their officers cover the beautiful setting of the television series - and kick off their publicity with the claim that "North Yorkshire is one of the safest counties in which to live and work". But the notion of Keystone Cops trying to capture a criminal out of their class does not fit the current, huge investigation, for all the frustration of Mr Hobson's remaining unfound. Headquarters at Newby Wiske promptly pulled all available alarm bells for national assistance, as well as using home-grown expertise. Detective Superintendent Javad Ali, for instance, the unassuming head of the Hobson team, who never looks happy on camera, has a good track record in persistent inquiries into violent crime. Although there were only seven murders in North Yorkshire last year - compared with the horrendous tally of four last weekend - Mr Ali spent most of the winter investigating another double killing. Patient work and a budget stretching to more than £500,000 broke down an initial wall of silence in York's drug community after the blood-covered bodies of two men were found in a York bedsit. A suspect was identified and traced to Holland, where last month he lost an appeal against extradition to York. The noisy air conditioning at York's Fulford Road police station has to be turned off at press conferences so that Mr Ali's voice can be heard, but he has been promoted steadily by the force. Always in North Yorkshire, apart from a stint in Greater Manchester, he was a chief inspector this time last year. Now he heads the criminal investigations in North Yorkshire's central division. His most recent promotion followed a strengthening of senior ranks which was linked to another heavyweight side of the county's policing. Both Fylingdales and Menwith Hill monitoring stations are in North Yorkshire, and the force won extra Home Office money and an experienced superintendent from London who has the new and non-rural post of head of counter-terrorism. Even so, one of the Hobson hunt's first calls was to Bramshill police college, where the national crime faculty runs a database of experts available to help major inquiries. Mr Ali's team has called in a number of specialists, including an adviser on media policy. In the wake of Soham, information handling was highlighted as a priority in the report to the Inspectorate of Constabulary by Sir Ronnie Flanagan, who concluded there was "scope for much greater collaboration at regional and national levels". Cambridgeshire officers generated so much publicity in so many directions that they were all but overwhelmed with 15,000 calls, most of them irrelevant. A key difference in the Hobson hunt is that the suspect has been identified immediately, although two dedicated call centres at Newby Wiske and York have been inundated with calls. Up to now, a spokeswoman for the inquiry said yesterday, these have been channelled through the Holmes computer system, set up to prioritise and process data after the disaster of the Yorkshire Ripper investigation. Mr Ali and Deputy Chief Constable Roger Baker, who co-hosts the daily press conferences, have also managed so far without extra manpower from neighbouring forces. But both West Yorkshire and Humberside police are able to play a part in keeping eyes and ears on villages, roads and a web of waterways which cross the three forces' patches round the focus of the hunt. Routine North Yorkshire policing is being maintained not only by the full-time establishment of 1,500 officers, but by specials and some 60 of the new police community support officers, who are particularly used for surveillance. The Hobson case is an early test of their usefulness in a major manhunt. Forensic work has also been demanding, with two large and complicated crime scenes, but North Yorkshire has drawn on previous experience of complex liaison. As with Soham, Mr Ali has been able to call in rapid help. One of the Forensic Science Services's seven laboratories is in Wetherby, a stone's throw from the North Yorkshire boundary, and the inquiry includes officers who dealt with Glynn Harding, the letter-bomber who was detained indefinitely in a secure hospital two years ago. Harding initially targeted victims in North Yorkshire and the force then supervised an inquiry dealing with attacks in Wales, Cumbria, Lancashire, Humberside and Warwickshire, which involved close liaison with all those forces. The course of the Hobson hunt is already being fed into discussions by the Association of Chief Police Officers and the National Centre for Policing Excellence which began after Soham. The tragedies in Camblesforth and Strensall are expected to speed progress to an inter-force protocol for cooperation and assistance in major incidents.