A Thai policeman suspected of murdering two British backpackers last month has given himself up, local police said today.Sergeant Somchai Visetsingha has been a fugitive since Adam Lloyd and his girlfriend, Vanessa Arscott, were shot dead in western Thailand in the early hours of September 9. Mr Visetsingha gave himself up near the border with Burma today and is to be flown to the provincial police headquarters, according to local police. Mr Lloyd, 25, and Ms Arscott, 23, were shot in the province of Kanchanaburi, close to the famous bridge over the river Kwai, after a row in a local restaurant. Mr Visetsingha was said to be the owner of the restaurant, believed to be called S&S. He was understood to have had an argument with the couple, who were regular visitors to the premises. Reports at the time suggested the pair had been attacked as they left and headed back to their guesthouse. Mr Lloyd was shot in the stomach, head and arm before the killer turned on Ms Arscott, hitting her with his car and dragging her 200 metres down the road before shooting her in the body and head. Vej Somboon, a police colonel, said today Mr Visetsingha had turned himself in to a regional police commander in the Kanchanaburi province, about 70 miles west of Bangkok, and would be flown by helicopter to provincial headquarters. Police have conducted an intensive manhunt for Mr Visetsingha for nearly a month, with a reward of 100,000 baht (£1,350) offered for help in capturing the suspect. British diplomats pressing for a resolution of the case are expected to meet Kanchanaburi police officials today to discuss the progress of the investigation. The area attracts many foreign tourists because it is the site of the bridge over the river Kwai, where Japanese troops built a railway using the forced labour of prisoners of war during the second world war. The bridge was made famous in David Lean's powerful 1957 film. Mr Lloyd was born in Northampton but grew up in Selsdon and Purley, in Surrey. He had recently moved to live with his parents in Torquay, in Devon. He went to school in Croydon before studying travel and tourism at East Surrey college, in Redhill. Ms Arscott's parents, Joyce and Graham, live in Ashburton, Devon. She had been studying health and fitness at college. The couple had planned the two-month trip to Thailand and Cambodia together, and they were murdered just days before they were due to fly home.