Precisely because it is recognised by no other country but Turkey, northern Cyprus is regarded as the perfect hideaway for British criminals on the run.Its tour brochure reputation as a "slice of heaven on earth" and, more importantly, its lack of extradition treaty with the UK, has prompted numerous villains to seek refuge there. Last month Stanley Rankin, who boasted he was one of Britain's "three most wanted men", was shot dead by a fellow Briton in the self-styled republic. The former lorry driver had a criminal record for theft and deception stretching back 20 years. At his funeral the British chaplain spoke of Rankin as a "lovable rogue who was generous to a fault when the money was there". Rankin said he loved northern Cyprus, which proclaimed independence in 1983, because it offered "so many cigarette smuggling and money laundering opportunities".His death - seven years after City of London police arrested him in possession of forged promissory notes worth $2.5m (£1.6m) - has unsettled other fugitives. According to diplomats, around 20 British criminals "of varying degrees" live in the enclave, enjoying the good life of clubs, casinos and tavernas. At least half are thought to be London-born Turkish Cypriots who control the heroin market in Britain. For several years Asil Nadir's neighbour was Brian Brendan Wright, the alleged mastermind of a drug empire that stretched from Australia to America. The two men were often seen wining and dining in Lapithos, the mountain village where both had luxury homes. Wright, who claimed Frank Sinatra among his friends, has been the subject of an international arrest warrant since the smashing of the biggest drug smuggling operation in UK history in 1999. The Irish-born villain lived in northern Cyprus until last year, when he was forced to flee. Other fugitives, such as the suspected former drug baron Gary Robb, have adopted citizenship of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, although Turkey is the only place in which they can use their new passports. Robb, 40, now lives a "quiet family life", running a construction firm.