The nature of evil and innocence - and the ambiguity of a man's appearance - were tested last week in the provincial pomposity of Preston Crown Court as two men sat in the well of the court.One was a young tough, his head a shaven skull, bearing a tattoo boasting his name 'Paul' in Gothic script riding his carotid artery, and an ugly cut just beneath his right eye. The other was the gentlest, sweetest-looking man in the building: a middle-aged, middle-class physician, a father-of-four with a donnish beard, pebble-thick glasses and, judging from his quiet calm, an understated bedside manner. The four naked cherubim looking down from the court's plaster ceiling might have been bemused to discover that the tattooed skinhead, Paul Spencer, was the Crown's witness, and the bearded doctor, Harold Shipman, the man in the dock, was charged with the murder of 15 elderly women by lethal injections of heroin and morphine.One of the doctor's patients, widow Winifred Mellor, 73, was found dead at her home with her left sleeve rolled up - the classic death scene of lifelong heroin junkies. But the court heard that none of the 15 women was being treated with morphine or heroin. Shipman pleads not guilty to 15 charges of murder and one charge of forging the last will and testament of Mrs Kathleen Grundy, 81, the former Mayoress of Hyde, a Manchester suburb of vivid dullness. Mrs Grundy died of a heroin overdose - administered, says the Crown, by her doctor. Shipman, 53 - a GP held in universal respect by his patients until the Grundy case came to light - enjoyed playing God, Richard Henriques QC told the court on the first day of the trial: 'There is no question in this case of euthanasia or what is sometimes called mercy killing. None of the deceased were terminally ill. The defendant killed those 15 patients because he enjoyed doing so. He was exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death and repeated it so often that he must have found the drama of taking life to his taste.' The case has certainly whetted the appetite of Preston. For the first few days the court was packed with fascinated members of the public, taking in the scene: seven civic worthies staring down from oil paintings on the red-gowned judge, the barristers 'M'ludding' away and the still, silent man in the dock, writing out not prescriptions but notes for his defence. Security men had to keep on turning away school kids, playing hookey presumably because alleged mass murder is more fun than double geography. But the ghoulish behaviour of the great British public could not begin to compete with the gruesome detail of the evidence. Nine of the patients at his one-man practice were buried and six cremated, a hushed court heard. When doubts about how they had died arose, the nine buried were exhumed. The QC said: 'Tests established a significant presence of morphine within their bodies. None of those buried, nor indeed cremated, were prescribed morphine or diamorphine' - heroin. Shipman had pretended to be treating the old ladies, when it was he who was killing them. He falsified medical records to cover his tracks, the Crown alleges. The doctor himself confessed to a district nurse that he read thriller books 'and I would have me guilty on the evidence'. He then started to cry, the court heard. Afterwards, he recovered himself and cracked a joke in the blackest of black humour, telling the nurse, in the words of Henriques: 'The only thing he had done wrong with regard to Mrs Grundy's death was not being able to arrange for her to be cremated.' There was, in truth, more than enough black humour at Preston Crown Court last week. The Crown's case hinges to a large degree on Mrs Grundy's will. The first she made in 1986, using her daughter Mrs Angela Woodruff, as a solicitor. The second was purportedly made a few days before her demise. It read: 'All my estate, money and home to my doctor. My family are not in need and I want to reward him for all the care he has given to me and the people of Hyde. He is sensible enough to handle any problems this may give him. My doctor is Dr H.F. Shipman, 21 Market Street, Hyde.' The letter was clumsily typed. The Crown alleges that this will is a forgery. One of the two witnesses to the will was the skinhead, Paul Webster. It was hard to imagine the 81-year-old ex-mayoress being on close terms with the tattooed skinhead with the vivid cut above his eye. Spencer said he had been sitting in Shipman's surgery when the accused asked him to witness a document. Spencer was asked whether he had any idea he was witnessing a will - one worth £386,000. 'None whatsoever,' he replied. Then another note of black humour irrupted into the court. The defence QC, Nicola Davies , brought up the matter of the News of the World 's payment to the skinhead, after the story of the exhumations had first come to light. How much, asked the posh-voiced barrister? 'Expenses,' said the skinhead. She pressed him on how much and for what. 'Travelling expenses. They came to see me and we went for a walk.' A silence seeped through the court as we all pondered on how anyone could get travel expenses for a walk. How much, pressed the barrister. 'What's that got to do with it?' replied the skinhead. 'Answer the question,' snapped the judge, Mr Justice Forbes. '£250,' admitted the skinhead guiltily. The trial continues.