A Dorset woman spent a night in jail after standing up to rowdy teenagers causing havoc in her garden, she said today.Brenda Robinson, 66, is accused of hitting an 11-year-old boy and dragging a 13-year-old girl by the hair to get her out of her Bournemouth garden.She said some boys had been kicking a ball against her car and she asked them to stop but was given a tirade of verbal abuse in front of her two grandchildren. A gang of around eight teenagers then appeared in her garden, on April 21, armed with pieces of wood and one of the girls allegedly hit her daughter-in-law Angie Laundon.The church-going grandmother then evicted the girls from her garden. She was taken off to the police station shortly afterwards. "All hell broke loose. I was really frightened. I don't have stand-up fights on a regular basis," said Mrs Robinson, a former administration officer for the NHS emergency bed service at Poole hospital.She said her night in the cells was "awful" and "claustrophobic". "Nobody came in to see if I was all right. I suppose they just don't care."By the time they did the interview, I had had no sleep, nothing to eat, just a glass of water. I was quite manic, virtually hysterical."Mrs Robinson, who volunteers for her local church parent and toddler group, a child contact centre and the local creche, added: "I don't think the police dealt with it at all well. I'm hardly a menace to society."The incident happened almost five years to the day after Mrs Launton's first husband was attacked and killed in Winton, near Bournemouth. Clive Wilcox's attackers have never been caught. The couple had stopped to buy cigarettes in May 2001 when he was attacked, fell and hit his head on the pavement. He died the next day in hospital. Mrs Robinson said: "Two days after my night in the cells an old man who lives five doors down was knocked to the floor and broke his nose. "You stand up for yourself and you get a night in the cells, or you don't and you get a broken nose. That can't be right." Mrs Robinson was released on bail and will find out tomorrow if she is to be charged with assault causing actual bodily harm on two youths.