An inmate of one of Britain's highest-security jails has been arrested on suspicion of murdering a child killer, Colin Hatch, in his cell.Police are questioning the 35-year-old man after Hatch, who was 38 and serving an indefinite life term, died at Full Sutton prison, near York.A team of detectives moved into the heavily guarded complex which has housed al-Qaida and Provisional IRA terrorists. Forensic searches are under way and staff and other inmates are being questioned.Hatch was a serial abuser of young boys from the age of 15. During his trial in 1994, for the abduction, abuse and murder of seven-year-old Sean Williams, the court was told that he fantasised about such crimes.He was recommended for Broadmoor after an earlier attack in which he almost choked to death an eight-year-old boy, but medical staff at the secure hospital did not consider him to be sufficiently dangerous.He murdered Sean shortly after release on parole from a three-year sentence for the choking assault, and was told on sentencing at the Old Bailey it was unlikely he would ever again be released. Judge Nina Lowry referred to a series of other assaults and said that it was not possible to envisage a time when the "highly dangerous" paedophile might be freed.She told him: "As of today, life imprisonment should mean what it says. In my judgment, you should never be released back into the community while there remains the slightest danger you will reoffend."Humberside police said that the arrested inmate was being questioned at Full Sutton but would be transferred in due course to police custody. A spokesman for Detective Superintendent Dena Fleming, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "We had a call at 7.24pm on Tuesday evening reporting that there was an ongoing incident at the prison."At 8pm we received a further call stating that a 38-year-old man involved in the incident had died. That man was prisoner Colin Hatch and his family have been informed. A postmortem is being held."Full Sutton was last the subject of an unannounced inspection in November 2007, which found that in spite of the high number of potentially dangerous inmates, the complex was a "commendably stable and largely safe environment".The prisons inspectorate reported that "the security department was well staffed and impressively organised and the work of the intelligence unit was particularly noteworthy. Security impacted across the establishment, but it was generally proportionate to prisoner risk. Despite some complaints from prisoners, categorisation and allocation arrangements were appropriate."Prisoner safety in high-security jails was reviewed after a Bosnian Serb war criminal, 62-year-old Radislav Krstic, was severely wounded in a knife attack by three Muslim lifers at Wakefield prison in West Yorkshire. The trio were given additional, concurrent life sentences on Monday for the attack last May.Hatch had been ostracised and isolated during his 17 years in jail, after details of his crimes were spelt out during and after his Old Bailey trial. Reports described how the jobless 21-year-old smirked in the dock after the jury unanimously found him guilty in 1994 of murdering Sean.The child's body was found wrapped in bin liners and dumped in a lift at the tower block in Finchley, north London, where Hatch lived. The court heard that another previous assault victim, aged 10, had been attacked by Hatch in the same lift.Sean's parents, Lynn and John Williams, who criticised the parole board, probation service and prison doctors who treated Hatch, said after his conviction: "Never again must a family have to suffer this experience and never again must Colin Hatch be released back into our community."Detective Superintendent Duncan Macrae, who led the murder inquiry, called Hatch "a frighteningly cunning criminal who had pulled the wool over the eyes of the authorities and would kill again if he was ever released".