Richard HoggartWhat people forget is that, in the 1960s, we were emerging from the war. There had been a long period of restriction and austerity, and suddenly all that changed. I remember, in the US, going into the first supermarket I'd ever seen and being amazed by the plenitude and cornucopia. I just wanted to take a bite of everything. I remember, too, girls in their mini-skirts walking down the King's Road full of bouncy confidence. We had a feeling that the war was behind us and we were forging on ahead. It was an innocent decade. Sexual liberation wasn't at the heart of it; consumerism was. For the first time, people took foreign holidays. The drabness and insularity of the 50s were over. The 60s had a gaiety that is very easy to lose. The British aren't as good at gaiety as, say, the French, and by the 70s we'd become more sober again. · Richard Hoggart appeared for the defence at the Lady Chatterley obscenity trial in 1960 Celia Birtwell Forget the 60s. The state of society today is not because of a few little people who were unruly back then. I do feel very cross about Blair's attitude - because he has never even tried liberalism. This whole "get harder with this, get harder with that" attitude is really what Thatcher used to do, and it leaves people disenfranchised and demoralised. We were told that New Labour would be tough on the causes of crime - that's liberalism too, isn't it? And where does the idea that liberalism is a 1960s invention come from? Independent-minded people across the centuries have espoused tolerance and understanding. Yes, after the war, in a way it was rather good - women had a chance to say what they wanted to say, for example. We all wanted to improve society through understanding and kindness and education, through making people excited about being alive. Tony Blair benefited from that, but now he's knocking it. I'm ashamed of him really; he's let us down. · Celia Birtwell is a textile designer and was married to Ossie Clark Arnold Wesker It's nonsense to suggest that the 60s were responsible for destroying the family or ending personal responsibility. If Blair really wants to know what the 60s were like he should read my first five plays and then he could speak with authority. It was a very moral decade, and a very moral generation of playwrights. I can't talk about the decline of values. Can anyone? It seems absurd to me to blame any decade in particular for causing a decline in values. I'm always very suspicious of people who talk in such broad strokes. But what he is saying is rubbish. Let him [Blair] find a more moral family-oriented person than me. He won't find one. I haven't had time to read the story this morning about all this because I have been too busy with my family to do so. · Arnold Wesker is the author of 42 plays Tony Benn The 60s were a time of liberation and hope. The feminist movement, the peace movement, the environmental movement - they all began in the 60s. It's very New Labour that it has to look for someone or something to blame - Piers Morgan, the BBC, now the 60s. It's just a diversion from Iraq and the bad byelection news. It was Mrs Thatcher who launched the attack on the 60s, blaming it for permissiveness. On the one hand, she said she wanted people to be free and unburdened. Then, when they expressed their freedom, she didn't like it. The evil of the 60s was her theme and how typical of New Labour, the New Thatcher party, to follow her. At least we didn't have wars in the 1960s. America went to war in Vietnam and it was Harold Wilson's great achievement not to go in with them. He knew how to interpret the special relationship. · Tony Benn served in both Harold Wilson's governments in the 1960s Shirley Conran I'm surprised by this news. Cherie is interested and involved in prison reform. If we get tough on crime you have more people in prison, it costs the country the earth, and I'm very surprised that a liberal PM is thinking that way, because surely he has the opposite view put to him over cornflakes in the morning. What does he mean by the phrase "a group of young people without role models?" In the 60s I lived in a terrace called "Stringalong Land" because it had so many trendy intellectuals living there. It was 22 houses in a Regency terrace. Architects, writers, the intellectual middle classes. And before I left, in the early 80s, four children in that terrace were heroin addicts. Their parents had done nothing to encourage them, because I know them, and they were all brought up in the same way, as I was, middle class values, public school, they knew right from wrong. The big problem with the young is drugs, and drugs are like alcohol in our day. Surely heroin addiction in the former mining towns can't be blamed on the parents. · Shirley Conran is the author of Superwoman, and was an influential journalist, as well as a mother, in the 60s. Al Alvarez I was 31 when the 60s began and had a wonderful time. The greatest change wasn't political, it was pharmaceutical - the coming of the pill. There was a great deal of very positive energy in the 60s: the dog's lead was lengthened and it needed to be lengthened. But there was also a downside. It was an unbridled carnival that gave free rein to charlatans such as Abbie Hoffman and Allen Ginsberg. It was the beginning of the cult of celebrity. Don't forget that Andy Warhol began as a window-dresser at Saks. We're still living with a lot of that window dressing. · Al Alvarez edited the influential Penguin anthology, The New Poetry, in 1962. Alexander Goehr The late 1950s were a period of great hope. There was a belief that the post-war and post-imperial world was going to see an explosion of cultural activity. Programmes such as That Was The Week That Was caught the new mood, but I always felt there were too many public school revolutionaries involved. There has never been a time when the silent majority was so alienated from the way things were going. In my field, music, there was an assumption that all the old criteria had died, that everything had to be remade. But the new criteria belonged to minority cultures and it was extremely unlikely that they would be embraced by the majority. The Proms were a dull old institution that the BBC suddenly decided was the place where the most advanced things could happen in front of a popular audience. The assumption was that the world had changed, but it hadn't and there was a backlash in the 1980s. Even at the time, I had the impression that 1968 was an end rather than a beginning. It was supposed to herald the start of the revolution, but it felt like the end of certain progressive kind of thought, the last time people felt socialism was going to win. · Alexander Goehr's opera, Arden Must Die, was premiered in 1967. Vanessa Redgrave Blair and Blunkett's new law-and-order proposals have a PR spin about the 60s that is false, and I believe the new proposed legislation has some dangerous implications. In the 60s: playwright Robert Bolt was sent to prison for a month for taking part in a Committee of 100 peaceful demonstration; the Lord Chamberlain censored playwrights and productions; Joe Orton was sent to prison for being a homosexual; the publishers of Lady Chatterley's Lover, by one of Britain's greatest writers, were charged by the attorney general and tried in court; the Observer's editor, Lord Astor, publicly attacked me for having a baby with a man I loved and had not married; a Committee of 100 non-violent protestors was sent to prison for a year; in Northern Ireland civil rights protesters were beaten up. I do not trust this government on anything to do with law and order. · Vanessa Redgrave starred in Blowup in 1966. Hunter Davies If it's true the government is blaming the 60s it's typical. They won't accept the blame for anything but they are first to point the finger at others. We had three children in the 60s and two of them now are parents and it's true that we brought our children up to be friends and chums whereas we were brought up to do what we were told. We brought them up on Dr Spock. We praised them and didn't smack them and tried to give them as much freedom as possible. I think there is a lawlessness about youth today which we didn't have. People flout authority, they don't give a damn. But most of the parents of hooligans weren't alive in the 60s. I think it's to do with society and how society has moved on. And hand in hand with this people do have more freedom of expression and people are less cowed and that's a good thing. They're not beaten down the way a lot of our generation was. A lot of stuff about the 60s is nonsense anyway: there was no sleeping around and no drugs. That's a myth. That was one very small segment of the country. I don't know who you should blame for the lawlessness and bad behaviour at the moment but it's not us, guv. Don't blame me, guv. · Hunter Davies is author of a number of books including The Beatles.