The Boston police commissioner who is said to have halved crime in the American east coast city and pioneered an innovative approach to tackling violence was named yesterday as the new high-profile head of the Home Office's police standards unit.Paul Evans, 54, a former Vietnam veteran who served in the US Marine Corps and who rose from a beat policeman to the commissioner's office, will replace the former policeman and business management expert Kevin Bond, who left the £200,000-a-year post in April after 18 months. Mr Evans, who pioneered the "Ceasefire" programme against gun crime which was taken up by President Clinton, will be responsible for the drive to raise police standards across England and Wales. The Boston Globe newspaper said yesterday that during Mr Evans' nine-year tenure as police commissioner the city had earned a reputation as one of the safest big cities in America, with violent crime hitting a 31-year low. He is to be paid £115,000 plus a 15% performance-related bonus when he takes over the job in November. Mr Evans succeeded William Bratton as the Boston commissioner, an officer often praised in Labour circles for his zero tolerance policing. The home secretary, David Blunkett, will try to renew the pace of police reform today when he addresses a meeting of all the chief constables and chairs of police committees in England and Wales. Mr Blunkett is expected to adopt a more emollient style than on the two previous occasions he has summoned the country's police chiefs. A Home Office spokeswoman said that he would not be imposing a "blueprint for change" but instead wanted to open up a dialogue with the police chiefs over how to improve accountability and raise standards. The police standards unit was set up in 2001 as part of Mr Blunkett's reform programme, which included a new deal for police officers on pay and conditions to reinforce the position of the beat bobby and the specialist detective. Mr Evans said yesterday that he was delighted to take on the job: "I want to continue and step up the work of the unit to establish effective partnerships with police forces across England and Wales." Mr Blunkett said Mr Evans had an impressive record in tackling crime in Boston, particularly in collaboration with local community leaders. "This is not the Home Office running local forces, but ensuring that the standards of the best are spread to the rest of the country," the home secretary said.