Sir William Macpherson has his work cut out. Later this month he will deliver his report into the woeful case of Stephen Lawrence - perhaps the most significant document on British race relations since Lord Scarman's inquiry into the Brixton Riots of 1981. This morning we provide another piece of the backdrop against which Sir William will deliver his judgment: a Guardian/ICM survey which shows that one in four Britons believes most police officers are racists. More alarming still for the police is the finding that fully one third of the public suspects the force is afflicted with institutional racism - believing that, no matter what individual officers may intend, the service itself ends up discriminating against blacks and Asians. This is a subtle distinction, arguing that the effect of police conduct is racist even if not all police officers are racists. Subtle, but this morning's results declare that this is the distinction the British public is making.It is a wise one, for the only meaningful definition of institutional racism must be one that concentrates on the mechanics of an institution rather than its personnel. The evidence that the police have a problem of the first kind is abundant. At every stage of policing, from stop-and-search to arrest to interrogation to prosecution to conviction to prison to release, the data shows black Britons getting a worse deal than their white neighbours. They face a system that appears to pursue them on a scale way out of proportion to their numbers, using methods that are too often insensitive to racial difference. The Lawrence case has counted the ways in which this can happen, crystallising it in the public mind. Indeed, it is possible that the attention generated by that murder - of a teenage boy by a gang of white thugs - is itself partly responsible for the sentiments laid bare in today's poll. The bungled investigation into the death of Stephen Lawrence has convinced the previously sceptical that the Metropolitan police has a problem with race. But the job is clearly not complete. Recent weeks have seen the beginnings of a Lawrence backlash. The right-leaning press has tiptoed into the territory, gently wondering if we've all got a bit carried away with this Lawrence business and asking whether perhaps the police are not the prejudiced villains of the liberal imagination but rather the victims of Politically Correct intolerance. 'Is the bobby's helmet the modern equivalent of a Klansman's hood?' asked one Times columnist, worried that the boys in blue were now prey to a PC McCarthyism. Police magazine - 'The Voice of the Service' - fears a new paranoia is sweeping the upper echelons of the Bill, complaining in its latest editorial that evidence showing black people over-represented among the criminal class has been repressed by PC-minded coppers anxious for promotion. Elsewhere unpleasant whispers about the Lawrence camp have been designed to undermine the case against the Met and to justify the police's appalling handling of the investigation. It is a wrong-headed effort which harms, rather than helps, the police cause.  The Macpherson report should settle the debate one way or another. Its publication will be a crucial moment in our national life, a fact evinced by the heat of the debate now underway even before its publication. There is some comfort in that - as there is in our poll finding that two thirds of the British public now believe immigration has enriched our society, adding a variety of ideas and culture. It may have taken the cruel murder of a young man to do it, but at last we are confronting our demons. 