To pose the question using the formula of the long-running radio panel game Round Britain Quiz: a Three Choirs Festival city; the county town of Suffolk; a village outside Ely; a port on the coast of Cumbria; the home of the Royal Ordnance factory – what places am I referring to, what do they have in common, and which one is the odd one out?The places are Gloucester, Ipswich, Soham, Whitehaven, and Birtley in Tyne & Wear and what they have in common is they are all the site of one or more particularly unpleasant murders – or, in the current jargon, "sprees" – that for days and sometimes weeks captured lurid headlines in the nation's redtops. Each of these crimes left a legacy if not of police incompetence, at least of police incapacity as to varying degrees the local force was overwhelmed by the demands placed on it.Four of the five forces involved (Gloucestershire, Suffolk, Cambridgeshire and Cumbria) are among the smallest in England and Wales with an average total staff of little more 2,000, less than a 20th of the size of the Metropolitan police. Birtley is the odd one out as Northumbria is a medium-size force at around 5,500, just above the average size of the 43 independent forces in England and Wales. However, even Northumbria is still some 20 to 30% below the size which Denis O'Connor, currently the chief inspector of constabulary, regarded as the minimum below which forces tended to lack "reactive capability and proactive capacity" in his thoroughly researched 2005 report Closing the Gap.Each of the five high-profile crimes has seen a common pattern in the police response. An initial slowness caused possibly by disbelief that anything so extreme was happening on their doorstep; a demonstrable lack of local capability in terms of being able to deploy an experienced serious crime squad including armed units, a qualified forensic team and specialist hardware, such as helicopters and armoured vehicles. Thus the need to call in reinforcements from other forces becomes apparent but that happens only after convincing the local chief constable that his pride is dispensable in the face of otherwise certain disaster.Later, inevitably, there is evidence that mistakes were made in the early stages of the incident. This is not surprising – mass murder in places like Whitehaven is a rare occurrence, and for most involved it would be the first such incident in their police careers. The latest ruse is for the local force to refer itself promptly to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. This seems an act of great responsibility but has the effect of making awkward press enquiries sub judice and thus gives the police time to regroup and prepare their story.The ultimate ironic twist is that at the end, ministers are lobbied for a special Home Office grant to enable the local force to pay for the reinforcements and services it has called in from neighbouring forces. So the taxpayer pays twice.O'Connor's 2005 report was commissioned to assess whether the current policing structures were able to provide effective and sustainable protective services. The protective services include counterterrorism, serious crime, organised and cross-border crime, civil contingencies and critical incidents, and they are the core of why civilised society needs a police service. It is distinct from and, in the last resort, much more important than local policing, though to listen to the rhetoric of politicians one wouldn't think so.The report's conclusions were devastating: "Put simply, when viewed from the context of the range of challenges and future threats now facing the police and the communities it polices, the 43-force structure is no longer fit for purpose." He suggested reducing the 43 to around 10 strategic forces master-minded by an executive and strategic authority – a national police force by another name. It seems radical, but it is nothing new; similar proposals had been put forward over 40 years earlier in the Goodhart minority report to the 1962 royal commission.Following publication of Closing the Gap the then home secretary, Charles Clarke, tried but failed to force through a radical restructuring. Last week Theresa May reinforced her government's commitment to localism in policing and at the same time scotched for the foreseeable future the likelihood of any centrally driven mergers, let alone the planned restructuring of policing that, particularly in the context of the objective to achieve 25% plus cuts in the police budget, has become a matter of national necessity.