Motorists who fail to renew their car insurance will receive automatic £100 penalty notices from a national computer database under government plans for a crackdown on Britain's 1m uninsured vehicles.The transport secretary, Alistair Darling, will today begin a consultation on proposals which will mean that enforcement no longer relies on the police catching motorists without valid paperwork. More than 5% of vehicles on the road lack valid insurance. Insurers say the cost of meeting claims for accidents involving illegal vehicles adds £31 to the annual policy of each legitimate driver. The change follows a similar tightening of rules on car tax discs. The introduction of automatic postal penalties for motorists who fail to renew their tax has snared 820,000 offenders since the beginning of the year. Figures from the Department for Transport showed the proportion of unlicensed vehicles had dropped from 4.8% to 3.4% nationwide.Mr Darling said the change was saving £77m annually in unpaid tax: "This is excellent news for the law abiding motorists. The results of this sur vey show that we are getting to grips with the problem of car tax dodgers." Londoners were previously the worst offenders in failing to tax cars. The proportion of untaxed vehicles in the capital has dropped from 4.5% to 2.1%. However, Scottish motorists appear to be ignoring the new regime. The rate of untaxed driving in Scotland has jumped from 1.6% to 2.3%. A DfT spokesman said the figures were disappointing but that Scots had not been a priority in enforcement because they were previously relatively law abiding. Insurers welcomed yesterday's consultation. Justin Jacobs, head of motor insurance for the Association of British Insurers, said: "This proposed new offence is good news for honest motorists." He added: "This change will enable the authorities to enforce systematically the motor insurance requirement for the first time." The motorist involved in last month's Berkshire train crash, Bryan Drysdale, had no car insurance. The accident, which claimed seven lives, is thought likely to produce one of the biggest ever claims on the Motor Insurers' Bureau which foots the bill for claims involving cars without insurance.