A policeman who smuggled cigarettes and tobacco into the UK and sold them to colleagues at his station was jailed yesterday for six months and ordered to pay £117,000.Boyd Adams, 54, a custody sergeant in Folkestone, Kent, was caught by chance trying to bring in a car-load of contraband through the Channel tunnel. A routine stop-and-search operation by Customs officials discovered 20,000 cigarettes and around 40kg of rolling tobacco. Adams, who had been with the police for nearly 20 years, resigned two months later and pleaded guilty at Maidstone crown court last October to evading excise duty and failing to pay tax. The court heard Adams had been smuggling tobacco and alcohol from Belgium for six years. He sold it mostly to colleagues at Folkestone police station or to family and friends. It was police colleagues that gave Customs officials a paper trail. Investigators found the names of nearly 50 customers on cheques paid into his bank account. When Customs officers searched Adams' home in the village of Hamstreet, they found 91 cartons of 200 cigarettes and 443 pouches of rolling tobacco in a hall cupboard. Sentencing Adams, Judge Keith Simpson expressed concern that a police officer should be selling illegal goods to other officers. "I am extremely troubled by the state of affairs that could exist in a police station where a custody sergeant could be supplying goods to other police officers as well as people outside." Adams' defence had suggested officers had approached him to get cheap tobacco. The judge replied: "It is a rather serious indictment of his work colleagues that they should do such a thing. "The court is bound to take a serious view of this, whether they approached him or he approached them." He accepted Adams was not smuggling on a large scale but said the fact he was a police officer obliged him to impose a jail sentence. In a statement, Kent police welcomed the result. Jim Barker-McCardle, the deputy chief constable of Kent police, said: "The public can be reassured that we work to bring offenders to book whatever they do for a living. Nobody is beyond the law. "As Customs led the investigation, any potential lines of inquiry that we uncovered were referred to them and decisions as to who was prosecuted were quite appropriately a matter for them." And he appeared to leave the door open for further arrests. "Now that the criminal case has concluded, we will review the case to see if there are any outstanding issues to address." Judge Simpson ordered £117,000 of his assets seized, including his share of his home and pension, to cover the financial benefits of his crimes. The father-of-three was divorced by his wife after his arrest, but she stood with him outside the court, only saying she was "very angry" with Adams.