To make the cover of Time magazine you generally have to be a pretty big name. The Dalai Lama made it last week, and earlier in the month the honour was bestowed on Hillary Clinton. But peering out from the latest edition is the face of a menacing young man wearing a hooded top, superimposed with a Union flag. "Unhappy, Unloved and Out of Control" screams the strapline. The cover star is supposed to represent Britain's youth who, the American publication claims, are responsible for "an epidemic of violence, crime and drunkenness". Really?"We get blamed for everything," said 18-year-old Lauren Rice, a trainee hairdresser, when shown the magazine yesterday in Elephant and Castle, south London. "Of course, some kids are bad, but others aren't." Rice said she was stopped and searched by police "for no reason" on an almost daily basis. "They don't seem to be able to tell the difference between a group of teenagers just hanging about, and a gang." She believes the government should spend less time suggesting that kids are out of control, and more time on finding ways to help them. They should make it easier to get into college too, she said, adding that she had enormous difficulties getting her place after she was expelled from school for fighting, aged 15. David Palmer, 18, was out shopping with his hood up, although the rain had stopped, and in defiance of the shopping centre's ban on hooded tops. But he said he was no feral youth, and the government had bigger things to worry about than the state of the nation's teenagers. "What about terrorism? I'm scared of people blowing up trains and things like that," he said. But another young man, Damien, who didn't want to give his surname, said Time had it spot on. "It's gangs that are the problem," he said. Asked whether he felt safe, he laughed. "No way," he said, looking over his shoulder. "If you're on someone else's turf you have to watch out." Damien was from Grove Park in Lewisham, so was watching his back in Elephant and Castle. Daniel Fremporg, 16, said Time was being unfair. "It depends how you're brought up," he said. "I've been raised to think about the repercussions of my actions."