Longer prison sentences for frauds that target the vulnerable and fresh sanctions against money-laundering are recommended in new judges' guidelines issued by the Sentencing Council.The impact of fraud on victims should be a central feature when judges come to consider the level of punishment imposed on convicted fraudsters, the guidance explains. Previous guidelines for many fraud offences referred to the harm done to victims merely as an aggravating factor.Some of the recommendations significantly raise the starting point in terms of sentence length. The previous range for offences involving more than £500,000, for example, was four to seven years' custody with a starting point of five years. The range in the new guideline is five to eight years with a starting point of seven."[Fraud] offences are committed by offenders for financial gain but can mean much more than financial loss to the victim," the Sentencing Council said. "Even a relatively small sum lost can leave some victims badly affected." Judges are urged to consider the effect on vulnerable victims such as the elderly.For the first time the guidance includes recommendations for those convicted of money laundering. The maximum sentence allowed by parliament is 14 years. The guidelines say the starting point for judges considering those convicted of handling more than £10m should be between four and 10 years in jail.In 2012, 17,926 people were sentenced for a variety of fraud involving deception of individuals, businesses, public bodies and charities.Frauds against individuals cost victims a total of £9.1bn during the financial year 2012-13. They included Ponzi schemes, gangs targeting people using cash machines, cowboy builders who rip off vulnerable older people, identity fraud and internet offences such as phishing, fake online ticket sites and bogus dating and social media sites.Fraud cost businesses £21.2bn in the same period, including employees claiming bogus expenses, suppliers making fraudulent payment claims, cash-for-crash scams and other insurance fraud, and people falsifying mortgage applications.Frauds targeting public money amounted to £20.6bn in 2012-13, mainly comprising tax fraud, such as income tax evasion and VAT evasion, as well as council tax and benefit frauds.The guidelines have been supported by the Citizens Advice Bureau. The organisation's chief executive, Gillian Guy, said: "As many as four million people are on the receiving end of a scam each year, with many tricked out of thousands of pounds of the money they need to get by."People often feel powerless to take on slippery con artists. People can bring scammers to justice and stop others being caught out by reporting them to Action Fraud."Sentencing guidelines must be followed unless a judge or magistrate feels it is "not in the interests of justice to do so". If a judge or magistrate believes that a guideline prevents the correct sentence from being imposed in an exceptional case, they may sentence outside of the guideline.The chairman of the Sentencing Council, Lord Justice Treacy, said: "Fraudsters are in it to make money, but for their victims it can mean much more than losing money. Our research with victims showed the great impact it can have on them, so the guideline puts this impact at the centre of considerations of what sentence the offender should get."