Drug-addicted prostitute Sally White was found dead, propped up naked in a locked room, on Anthony Hardy's bed. She had an injury to the back of her head that left a blood stain on the wall, and a bite-mark on her thigh. Hardy, the so-called Camden Ripper, was preparing to photograph her to add to his collection of violent pornography when the police discovered her body. The coroner for inner north London, Dr Stephen Chan, recorded a verdict of death by natural causes, saying: "There is no foul play or third party involved." Hardy went on to murder and dismember two other women, and has subsequently been convicted of their murder, and that of Sally White.It was announced last month that no action would be taken against Chan, who retired last year, as a consequence of the White case. This is not surprising to those familiar with coronial law, many of whom believe that it is a medieval system incompatible with the 21st century and the Human Rights Act. Deborah Coles, co-director of Inquest, an organisation that provides support and advice to families of those who die in custody, says: "There are some good coroners, but they have to operate in the context of a gross lack of resources and the restraint of outdated laws."An inquest must be held in cases of "unnatural death" such as accidents, unlawful killings and deaths in custody. By definition, these cases will be tragic, and families and loved ones of the deceased need answers as to how the deaths occurred. The government is currently considering its response to the Fundamental Review of Coroner Services, but campaigners do not hold out much hope for improvement if it does not put serious resources into the system. In reality, it is not possible to effect root and branch reform without investing serious money. There are still some coroner's offices without basic tape-recording equipment, and there is very little, if any, training for coroners. In spite of the importance of the role of inquests in preventing further deaths occurring in the same circumstances, the government is still saying it is "not mindful at this stage to invest more resources into the coronial system". There is also the issue of accountability. It is notoriously difficult to make a complaint against a coroner, as those attempting to do so have learned the hard way. This needs to change so that when coroners make serious mistakes, which could result in the wrong verdict, the families of the deceased know how to get justice. One such case was that of Harry Stanley, a 46-year-old shot dead by police as he waked home from the pub. Police had received a call from someone claiming Stanley was carrying a sawn-off shotgun in a carrier bag. It was a table leg he had just had repaired. Police shot him twice without checking if he was armed. Chan was the coroner at the inquest and made several important errors. He failed to mention that Stanley had been shot in the back of the head, and allowed the jury to hear irrelevant evidence of his previous convictions. The jury was told that it was not allowed to return with an "unlawful killing" verdict. The decision, an open verdict, has now been overturned and a new inquest ordered. Stanley's family have been living with the pain of his unresolved death for five years. Prison reform campaigners are keen to see a radical shake-up of procedures in inquests and coroners' discretion. An average of two prisoners die every month in England and Wales, and their families do not get automatic legal aid for representation at the inquests, making it very difficult to challenge coroners if they neglect to call crucial witnesses, or misrepresent the evidence. The coroner's court is only mandated to ask "who died", "when", and "how". There is little room to examine the circumstances surrounding the death. In the last week, two women have died in prison, yet it could be years before the inquests are concluded. In the meantime, the lessons that could have been learned from those tragedies will be put on hold. The last successful prosecution of a police officer involved in the death of a black person was in 1971, yet in the last 10 years more than 70 black people have died in custody. Roger Sylvester, a 30-year-old who had suffered mental illness, is one of them. He died in 1999 after being controlled and restrained by police when found outside his address in a "distressed state". The inquest into his death took almost five years to be heard, resulting in a verdict of "unlawful killing". "If the family had not pushed for all the relevant evidence to be heard at that inquest, exactly how he died would still be unknown," says Coles. Campaigners and grieving families are hoping the government will act and bring in legislation and procedures that will make coroners more accountable, and provide the resources to vigorously investigate these tragic deaths. Currently, the quality of inquest depends on where you die. Some coroners are hostile to families being represented, and yet without representation key issues are often left unexposed. Let's hope any new legislation will be the death of such a lottery on human life. · j.bindel@londonmet.ac.uk Julie Bindel is co-author of The Map of My Life: The Story of Emma Humphreys.