A man told a fellow prison inmate that he had killed his wife after finding her in bed with someone else, the Lady in the Lake murder trial heard yesterday.Gordon Park, 60, made the confession to drug addict Michael Wainwright while on remand at Preston jail, it was alleged. The body of Mr Park's wife, Carol, was found trussed up at the bottom of Coniston Water in the Lake District in 1997. She had been missing for 21 years. Mr Wainwright said he had heard Mr Park mumbling to himself in the prison exercise yard, saying "she deserved it" and that he strangled then battered her with an axe after witnessing her adultery. Mr Wainwright's testimony to police was questioned at length by Andrew Edis QC, defending, who also focused on the witness's long history of drug abuse, mental problems and his conviction for trying to suffocate his baby stepson. Mr Park, 60, a retired teacher, sat impassively in the dock as Mr Wainwright, from Ormskirk, Lancashire, told the jury at Manchester crown court of the alleged confession in 1997. "He told me that he did kill his wife and she deserved what she got as she should have been more reliable to him and not to others," Mr Wainwright said. "He said he had tried hacking his wife up to dismember her but because he could not he stopped and wrapped her up. He told me after wrapping the body up he put it in a motor vehicle and went out to Lake Coniston to his boat." Mrs Park, then a 31-year-old mother of three, went missing in July 1976. Mr Park told police he had taken their children on a day trip to Blackpool and she had vanished when they got back to the family home in Leece, near Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria. Mr Wainwright added that during the five-minute conversation Mr Park told him "he found her in bed with somebody else". He chased the man away then went back to his wife and "committed murder". Mr Park was later freed when the Crown Prosecution Service decided not to pursue the murder charge. In September 2000 Mr Wainwright saw a documentary called A Very British Murder, with details about Mrs Park's body being found 25 metres (82ft) below the surface of Coniston. He called police the next day. Mr Wainwright admitted that he had memory difficulties, and that he had been treated for psychiatric problems and had been dependant on cannabis for 14 years. Mr Park, of Barrow-in-Furness, denies murder. The hearing was adjourned until today.