A compulsive arsonist escaped a ban on carrying a lighter or matches yesterday after her lawyer argued that she had a human right to smoke.Prosecution staff left Ormskirk magistrates court, Lancashire, disappointed that their highly-targeted anti-social behaviour order had been blocked as a curb too far on 23-year-old Marie Dalziel.Lawyers had drawn up restrictions which, her solicitor Mike Heggerty said, would have reduced Ms Dalziel to options such as rubbing two sticks together to make a flame."There are human rights issues. This lady is a smoker. Is she not to be allowed to smoke in a public place?"Dalziel, who admitted two counts of criminal damage, had a habit of trying to set random cars alight. She was arrested at 4am in Ormskirk after travelling from her home in Fazakerley, Liverpool, and drenching two cars with paint stripper.Sue Crabb, prosecuting, said: "This Asbo says to the defendant: here is a line in the sand which you do not cross. That helps her to stop offending which helps her rehabilitation."Where an Asbo is concerned, you need to consider her human rights. But I also ask you to bear in mind the human rights of the public."Mr Heggerty described Dalziel as "an unsolvable problem" but said the proposed order risked setting her up to fail. It was a delusion to believe that any court could outlaw all methods of starting a fire.The chair of the bench, Sonja Oyen, turned down the match and lighter ban, but imposed six other restrictions. Dalziel was ordered to obey a 7pm curfew, wear an electronic security tag and attend a drugs rehabilitation course.She was also banned from carrying any accelerant and from entering Ormskirk or the nearby town of Aughton. Ms Oyen told her: "We feel that this community order and its six requirements are intensive enough to reduce your behaviour."After the hearing, PC Gary Southam warned that the match and lighter ban could remain an option in future. "If she breaches her community order I will resubmit the Asbo to the court."