Three men who held a businessman prisoner forced him to sign over his company and make reassuring phone calls to relatives and colleagues before they murdered him, a jury at the Old Bailey heard yesterday.But Amarjit Chohan's captors had already killed his wife, infant sons and mother-in-law by the time they finally killed him, the prosecution maintained. The Crown alleges that Kenneth Regan, a convicted drug dealer and the ringleader of the plot, wanted to seize control of Mr Chohan's firm CIBA Freight and use it to import hard drugs. The rest of his family were murdered so that it would look as if they had all moved abroad voluntarily. Following their disappearance, Mr Regan produced a document signed by Mr Chohan, granting power of attorney to two staff members, and a handwritten letter claiming he had illegally exported a drug called qat to the United States. The letter, which has since disappeared, apparently read: "Greed has got the better of me ... I've got myself in serious trouble. Some people are after me and I have to escape. I fear for the safety of my family." Mr Regan, 55, of Wilton, Wiltshire; William Horncy, 52, of Bournemouth; and Peter Rees, 39, of Rowlands Castle, Hampshire, deny the unlawful imprisonment and murder of Mr Chohan, 45, also known as Anil. They also deny the murders of Nancy Chohan, 24; Devinder, 18 months, and Ravinder, two months, as well as Mrs Chohan's mother, Charanjit Kaur, 51, who was staying with the family. All five vanished in February last year and Mr Chohan's body was pulled from the sea two months later. He had been gagged with packing tape and his blood showed an unusually high level of gammahydroxybutrate - known as GHB - which can be used as a sedative. "Within days of Mr Chohan's disappearance, Regan had replaced the carpet and the furniture from the front room of his home address," Mr Horwell said. "At some point the room had been redecorated ... Something happened to Mr Chohan [there]." He added: "Wherever he was held, Anil Chohan was forced to sign a number of documents and blank sheets of paper. He was also forced ... to record voice messages in an attempt by his captors to placate and reassure his wife and friends." The court heard that despite the messages, Mrs Chohan became increasingly concerned after her husband disappeared on February 13 and repeatedly called his mobile phone, which had been switched off. Those calls stopped on February 15, when she and the other victims were either kidnapped or killed, Mr Horwell said. "It is a certainty that Mrs Chohan and her family were imprisoned or murdered that afternoon and it is of great significance ... that that afternoon the mobile telephones of Regan and Horncy were used [in the vicinity of] the Chohan family home," he added. Mobile phone evidence also showed "beyond doubt" that Mr Regan and Mr Chohan met near Stonehenge on the day the businessman vanished. The Crown alleges that Mr Regan claimed he had found a Dutch company who would buy CIBA Freight for £3m and that Mr Rees posed as a potential buyer to lure Mr Chohan to the meeting. Shortly before his arrest, Mr Rees discussed the family's disappearance with a woman he met, saying: "It was me that called him out." Mr Regan initially suggested that Mr Chohan had sold the firm and flown abroad to deposit the cash payment. He then claimed that he himself had bought the firm. It was only several days later, after the death of Mr Chohan, that he produced the power of attorney document, Mr Horwell said. The case continues.