At ten o'clock last night, ITV viewers were invited to watch the self-styled future of current affairs being premiered on their television screens. Tonight With Trevor MacDonald, Granada's successor to World In Action, opened its first series with an hour of interviews with the five Stephen Lawrence murder suspects, conducted by Martin Bashir. What viewers saw depended upon who you spoke to. Either, it was a sensational scoop, the one every journalist had been chasing, answering the nation's questions and proving that current affairs are safe in Trevor MacDonald's hands. Or, it was a tasteless stunt for a sensationalist series - an insult to the memory of Stephen Lawrence, and a jig on the grave of quality current affairs. Stephen Lawrence's family were clear in their opinion. 'These boys,' said Neville Lawrence yesterday, 'have been given several opportunities in the courts. They even took us to the High Court to stop us asking the obvious questions.' A Metropolitan Police spokesman added, 'Perhaps, if they feel this strongly about it, they'd like to present themselves at a police station by appointment to be interviewed by police officers and answer the difficult questions.' There is no mystery as to why the Lawrences should feel as they do, nor is it hard to sympathise. The spectacle of the five suddenly recovering their famously poor memories in the comfort of a TV studio will have been as painful as any the family have had to endure from them. But they do not have the right to gag the five men. Nor, on the other hand, do the suspects have the 'right' to appear on TV to give their side of the story. Contrary to popular confessional rhetoric, none of us has some immutable right to have our say on national television, and whatever courtesies are normally extended have certainly been forfeited by these five a long time ago. Last night's interviews had nothing to do with rights - least of all the public's entirely specious 'right' to hear what the men have to say for themselves. Max Clifford, who the five approached last autumn and who, in turn, introduced them to Bashir, told me: 'I'm not saying they are innocent, but I believe that in a democracy this programme should go ahead.' In reality, the ethical context of television is more complicated than that. The variable which makes such an interview legitimate or otherwise is not the moral virtue of the subject at all, but, rather, the motives and skills of the interviewer. There is an obvious public interest in the five suspects, just as there was in their families - which is why, when Radio 4's Today programme interviewed their mothers, this was regarded as an proper journalistic exercise. Had Richard and Judy cosied the mothers onto This Morning sofas, however, we would have felt very differently. Nobody is so far beyond the pale that they should not be interviewed. It all depends upon how and why it is done. So what were the circumstances of last night's interviews? Max Clifford made the initial introductions, and advised the suspects to give a major TV interview - advice for which he insists he received no money. This is believable enough, for no-one in their right mind would be involved in an exchange of cash over this. He also denies doing it for the publicity, pointing out that he is the last man in this country in need of publicity. Again, reasonable enough, although it is also true that it serves his commercial ends to be the one we all know was the fixer, and not a rival agent. Max Clifford does not need any one particular case - but it pays to maintain one's ubiquity, all the same. Granada, likewise, paid no money, and assure us that they retained full editorial control; no questions were off limits, we are told, and nothing could be edited out by the interviewees afterwards. The five were interviewed separately, and were forbidden to communicate with each other during the two days of filming. Exactly how this was achieved is vague, though, and the men have had six years now in which to get their story straight. They have presumably discussed what they were all doing that night once or twice. Full editorial control is also a potentially elastic term, as after-the-event editing can be dressed up in legal terms.Ultimately, it amounts to a question of trust. Do we trust ITV's new flagship programme, so frantic for a high-profile debut, to have cared as much about getting these interviews right as it did about simply getting them? Martin Bashir is no John Humphreys, and Tonight With Trevor MacDonald - not so much by its own admission as its own boast - is a long way from World In Action. The programme's overriding remit is to boost ratings and popularise current affairs; meanwhile, ITV is under pressure from the ITC to improve its current affairs output, which last year hit an all time low of one hour and 25 minutes a week. The channel even tried to pass off We Can Work It Out, a Watchdog-style consumer show, as current affairs, in a failed attempt to disguise the problem. So we have the unhealthy situation where a programme conceivably needed five murder suspects as much, maybe even more, than the murder suspects needed it. Bashir will certainly have been anxious to establish his interrogative credentials, and Granada will have been desperate not to let their scoop explode in their face. The men had to be asked if they murdered Stephen Lawrence, and they were. But the irony is this. Tonight With Trevor MacDonald has been devised for commendable reasons - to bring current affairs to a wider audience than the middle class elite which documentary audiences are in danger of becoming. It claims to bring the best of populist TV, an ex-Watchdog reporter, an ex-Richard and Judy editor, etc - to serious investigative television. It tries to tempt viewers with Roger-Cook-on-steroids-style trailers, and sandwich worthy stories between items on Why Your Washing Machine Costs Too Much. On paper, the theory is flawless. In practice, however, the infotainment principle seldom works; credible current affairs programmes depend more than we probably realise on some subtle sense that the makers do not play tricks to get our attention, and that the story they have to tell is more important than their desire for ratings. The theory's flaw is exposed by this very first programme. In their desire to make a splash, they have secured one of the biggest, perhaps most important scoops of the year - and yet the Lawrence family were not alone in thinking it just a 'cheap publicity stunt'.