Six siblings from a "traditional Asian Muslim family" from Lancashire have admitted attempting to kidnap the girlfriend of one of their sisters, threatening to kill her because she had "messed with the wrong Muslims".Almost three years ago Nazma Ditta, 28, one of nine children from Blackburn, began a secret relationship with Sarah-Jane Harrison, 35, when both women worked at a clothes shop in Blackburn, Preston crown court heard on Friday.Unhappy that Nazma was in a same-sex relationship with a white, non-Muslim woman, six of her siblings plotted to break up the relationship. They wanted her to enter into an arranged marriage with a cousin or another man, and discussed putting her on a plane to Pakistan, the judge, Mr Justice Knowles QC, noted.Three of Nazma's sisters, one wearing a full-face veil, were caught on CCTV kicking and punching Harrison after she finished work at USC Clothing in Blackburn town centre on 20 June last year.They were shown dragging her to the floor by her hair and snatching her handbag, before rifling through it to take out Nazma's passport and other things belonging to her. Previously, text messages exchanged between the siblings had talked about "battering that bitch". One, sent by Nayyar Mehmood, 38, the second eldest sibling, urged her siblings to attack Harrison and said: "A kaffir [non-believer] is taking over."CCTV shown to the court showed Nighat Morris, 39, the eldest child in the family, along with her sisters Tosif Ditta, 35, and Ghazala Ditta, 31, trying and failing to bundle Harrison into the back of a car before driving away. They were guarded throughout the attack by Tahmoor Ditta, 26, one of Nazma's brothers. He had a bradawl, a sharp carpentry tool, "clenched in his fist with the spike poking out between his fingers", which he used to try to scare off one of Harrison's colleagues who tried to intervene in the attack.Both Harrison and her colleague told police the family shouted: "Get her in, get her in, you've messed with the wrong Muslims, we're going to kill you."Nazma kept her sexuality a secret until 19 June last year, shortly after she moved out of the family home. "Knowing that the family would react very badly to the news that she was gay and that she was in an ongoing relationship, Nazma Ditta had been slowly moving her belongings from the family home over to Miss Harrison's home in Blackpool since December 2012," said the prosecuting barrister Richard Haworth."The family had a traditional arranged marriage planned for her and had already suggested a suitor – her cousin, to whom the family believed she was betrothed, and whom she in fact had already rejected," said Haworth. "In April 2013 three further suitors were suggested to her and a date of February 2014 was mentioned for her marriage and that of her two siblings, including Tasawar [a brother, aged 29], who the family are aware is gay." The Dittas were a "traditional Asian Muslim family", he added.Nazma agreed to a marriage but resolved to run away and live with Harrison, the court heard. On 10 June she called Tasawar from a withheld number, telling him she was gay but not mentioning her relationship with Harrison. On 11 June Nazma had an "emotional" meeting with Tasawar, Ghazala and their mother, Rani, who was originally charged as part of the conspiracy to kidnap Harrison.The charges against Rani were dropped earlier this year when the prosecution agreed not to submit any evidence in relation to her if six of her children pleaded guilty.After that meeting the family "closed ranks and told or cajoled and emotionally blackmailed" Nazma, said Haworth. She received abusive text messages from her siblings. One, from Tasawar, said: "I am dead to you, Delete my number. I hope you are happy with Sarah." One of her sisters, Ghazala, then texted to call Nazma a "selfish stupid bitch. Just wait until we get hold of you."Nighat Morris pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit actual bodily harm, attempted kidnap and robbery. In mitigation, her barrister, Anthony Stephenson, said that while she accepted her part in the attack, she was not motivated by religious hatred or homophobia.Her husband, a white man called Stuart Morris, was called to give evidence on Friday, and claimed that the Dittas had welcomed him into their family. "Race, religion, sexuality has never been an issue in this family," he told the court, saying that not only was one of the sons, Tasawar, gay, but that one of the other daughters had been in a lesbian relationship while at university.The siblings on trial claim they acted because they had "genuine, deep-seated concern as to Nazma's welfare", and were "acting out of concern for their parents", said Ricky Holland, defending Aftah Ditta, 32, a university-educated mother of two young children, who pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit actual bodily harm.Holland told the court: "There was a clash of cultural and personal beliefs, [which] in the end saw matters get desperately out of hand and I would submit that not one of them really gave any proper considered thought as to what they were embarking on, the enormity and frankly the nature of it."Tahmoor Ditta, the only male sibling on trial, pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit actual bodily harm, attempted kidnap, robbery, possession of an offensive weapon and battery.Ghazala Ditta pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit actual bodily harm, attempted kidnap and robbery.Aftah Ditta pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit actual bodily harm, attempted kidnap and robbery.Nayyar Mehmood pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit actual bodily harm. The court heard she sent text messages from Pakistan, inciting her siblings to attack Harrison.They will be sentenced on Friday afternoon.