Four months have passed since the European court of human rights landed a unanimous and unusually pointed judgment damning the "blanket and indiscriminate" DNA database in England and Wales, which keeps genetic tabs not just on criminals but on anyone falling under police suspicion. Save for a vague promise to consult on possible changes in several months' time, ministers have said almost nothing about what they will do, still less taken serious action. It is even rumoured the spirit of the ruling will be circumvented - by taking innocent people off the system but holding on to saliva samples, so they can be put back on as convenience requires.To worry about this is not to deny that genetic fingerprinting has been a huge advance. Contamination and other complexities make the degree of certainty less absolute than is sometimes supposed, but it has indisputably helped to catch the likes of the Ipswich murderer Steve Wright. The same science can help the innocent walk free - as when Sean Hodgson was released last month after serving 27 years for a murder he did not commit. Legal aid and other restrictions in such cases must be swept away. But the man who understands all this better than anyone - the technology's inventor, Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys - told yesterday's Guardian that hoarding the DNA of the innocent was causing public support to wilt.This is not some technophobic reaction that can be educated away. A system that draws no distinction between those convicted and acquitted in court creates entirely rational anxieties. Foremost among them is discrimination, since some ethnic groups are more likely to be apprehended by police. One thoughtful judge, Stephen Sedley, argues for a database covering every citizen, which would certainly be more defensible than the current system.It would not, however, deal with Strasbourg's concern, namely the threat to privacy. The loss of every child benefit record in the country is only the most spectacular recent example of leakage from a supposedly secure database. Family relationships and medical conditions are private concerns which can be unravelled in the double helix, so the potential for abuse with genetic data is particularly grave. No other country holds so many records, even though each has to deal with serious crime. As an absolute minimum the home secretary should swiftly follow Scotland's example and destroy the records of suspects of non-violent crimes; instead her immediate reaction has been to remove only the mere handful of young children who were on the system. Strasbourg has got the DNA database bang to rights. The convict must now mend its ways - and fast.