For me, it started with a magazine called True Detective, at a time when I should have been reading more wholesome fare such as the Children's Newspaper or the Eagle. There was murder and mayhem and black-and-white photos of bodies in blood-stained sacks, and it was all true. I had been going through an Agatha Christie phase, so the idea that it was possible to write about real rather than fictional murders, and about detectives called Bob or Jim rather than Hercule or Miss Marple, was enticing. Sometimes in the background of the grainy crime scene photos would be a chap with a notebook. A crime reporter. What a job!My first excursion into the world was as a law student at Edinburgh university. I had to interview the retired former chief constable of Midlothian, a legendary character called Wee Willie Merrilees – he was five inches too short for the police but had been given special dispensation – who had been one of the Most Unforgettable Characters in Reader's Digest and was not shy about explaining why. He recounted his exploits, which included one operation during which he had hidden in a pram disguised as a baby to catch a molester in Edinburgh. Was this my first lesson in that old-school rule of journalism, too good to check? More chillingly, he told me of how the police in the 30s had cleared up the "homo problem" in Edinburgh by rounding up the clientele of the city's few gay bars and putting them on a non-stop Flying Scotsman to London.Down in London, in the 60s and early 70s, Life On Mars was a reality. It was the heyday of the armed robber, but it was sometimes hard to tell the villains from the detectives; it was a period of police history that later caused the Met commissioner, Sir Robert Mark, to remark that he aspired to arrest more criminals than he employed. I soon learned a second important journalistic lesson: never assume. No one quite fitted their stereotypes. The Open University had opened its virtual doors and a generation of north London armed robbers, banged up for a decade or so behind bars, passed the time by becoming better educated than most of my university contemporaries.Meeting one of them for a drink one night in the pub, I noticed that he was reading Virginia Woolf's To The Lighthouse. I mentioned this, with a snigger, to another armed robber who replied, without drawing breath: "Not her best." I was soon to meet a detective who knew more about Pinter than most theatre critics, more about Bob Dylan than most music writers and more about Native American battle strategies than most historians. If you had written him into a television series, you would have been told not to make him so fanciful. Never assume, indeed.Early in my career I met the Prince of Darkness, Jimmy Nicholson, now 82 and the oldest crime reporter still haunting the bowels of the Old Bailey during the big trials. He acquired his nickname while covering the Balcombe Street siege, wearing his trademark black cape. He explained to me the basics of reporting a murder: "Day one is the body. Day two, hopefully, they've identified her. Day three, it's The Village Under Suspicion. Day four, it's The Finger of Suspicion Points At Me."Nicholson wears the tie of the Crime Reporters' Association – the crossed handcuffs and quill pen of the organisation granted special access to the Yard. It exists to this day; I was its chairman for four years in the 90s. But Nicholson is the last of the old-school crime reporters whose golden age was just starting to slip into the sunset by the time I was being instructed to be "silent and upstanding" for the entrance of the beak in an Old Bailey murder trial. High noon for that generation had perhaps come in September 1950 when the Messina brothers, who ran the Soho vice rackets that were then thriving behind the lace curtains of postwar British austerity, were spectacularly exposed in the Sunday People as "four debased men with an empire of vice which is a disgrace to London". The very next week Duncan Webb, the reporter whose exposé caused their downfall, was attacked in the street by a man who introduced himself as "a pal of the Messinas" and who told Webb, "It's about time that you journalists were done proper."Webb was "done proper" quite a few times in the course of what can only be described as a highly colourful career. Indeed, Time magazine reported in 1955 that Webb, then only 37, had been "slugged, kicked, lunged at with knives, shot at, knuckledusted and was once the target of a speeding automobile that raced on to the side-walk of a narrow Soho street and tried to smash him against a building".With his belted raincoat and wide tie, and with yards of column inches to fill every day for a gore-hungry public – the Sunday People's circulation was then 5.2m – the crime reporter was the sultan of the newsroom. Newspapers in the 50s had crime bureaux rather than a single reporter. Pages were cleared to report every detail of a major trial. Capital punishment was yet to be abolished and evening papers were guaranteed a healthy sale whenever the jury went out to deliberate in an Old Bailey murder trial that might conclude with the donning of the judge's black cap.There were more than 100 police forces in England and Wales, and many had only a handful of detectives. This meant that when a big murder happened outside London, it was a case of "Send for the Yard" and for one of the "Big Five" – the quintet of detective superintendents who led the major investigations. Often those detectives would stay in the same country hotel or pub as the reporters, and benefit handsomely from Fleet Street's then generous expenses culture.Webb was proud of the fact that he could rub shoulders with both the police and the villains (he ghosted gangster Billy Hill's 1955 autobiography, Boss Of Britain's Underworld), and he was not averse to doing whatever might be necessary to get his scoops. When covering the case of the acid bath murderer, John George Haigh, who killed nine people and dissolved their bodies in acid, duty called on Webb to date Haigh's ex-girlfriend. "I detested every minute of it," he told Time. While investigating the Messinas, a prostitute called Ellen offered him a night's hospitality if he could get her an introduction, through his newspaper contacts, to a "certain well-known male film star". Webb made his excuses and left.Sometimes he made his excuses and stayed: he became the lover of Cynthia Hume, a night-club hostess and wife of Donald Hume, who had been jailed in connection with the killing of a car dealer in 1958. "The reason the underworld chaps talk to me," wrote Webb in his own autobiography, Dead Line For Crime, "is because they trust me. They know I cannot be bought or sold, nor is there a lot of which I am afraid."Crime reporting was certainly not for the weedy. Stanley Firmin was the Daily Telegraph's man with the belted mac, and he explained in his memoir, Crime Man, just what the job entailed. "The voice on the 'phone was low, clear and direct. It was the voice of my news editor, asking the same question I had heard thousands of times after giving my paper the first few brief sentences that meant a new sensational murder case had broken. 'Well, Firmin,' said the voice, 'what's behind it?' A question that was being asked by every news editor in Fleet Street of his crime man."It was at the end of the second world war, during Sir Harold Scott's commissionership of the Metropolitan police, that the crime reporter was grasped most firmly to the blue serge bosom of the police. Scott issued instructions that crime reporters should be taken into the confidence of Scotland Yard for the first time. Reporters were given their own room, complete with phones connected to their Fleet Street offices. (It was a system, like the parliamentary lobby, that worked both ways and may well have led to a failure by the press to report, until too late, on widespread corruption at the Yard in the 60s and 70s.)Firmin recounted that, at any time of the day and night, there would be up to a dozen crime reporters in the press room at the Yard. "These are the aces of the game, the men who have chosen to give up all ideas of social life and home ties and devote all their time to crime hunting." He wrote admiringly about a former colleague, Hugh Brady of the Daily Mail, who had a network of informers so extensive that whenever he left his home, his sister – Brady, being that rare breed, a "single man" – would have to remain indoors in case some snout rang with a tip-off. Brady's informants all had code names such as the Gladiator, the White Knight or, intriguingly, the Curassier.The crime reporter of the era had to use his initiative in other ways, too. Firmin recalled that a colleague, bored with the lack of breaking news on a murder near the Blackwall Tunnel in London, cut his own finger, soaked a handkerchief in the blood and dumped the hankie in the tunnel. He then wrote a news story headlined The Clue Of The Bloodstained Handkerchief. Not that Firmin approved of this "indefensible" act of pre-DNA irresponsibility, of course, but he had to admit that it did "illustrate to some degree the quality of initiative and enterprise that the present-day crime men, have, so to speak, inherited".The supremacy of crime in popular newspaper coverage in the 50s and 60s was reflected in the amount of space devoted to court cases, once a staple of the now fast-declining local newspaper. For the nationals, a murder trial, preferably with some sort of sexual frisson to it, could be guaranteed thousands of words of copy filed by teams of court reporters. "If it bleeds, it leads," became the motto of a hundred newsrooms. The Daily Telegraph specialised in such gory stories. The Old Bailey was a national theatre, its public galleries often packed for a heavily-covered trial.Times began to change. Women became crime reporters, although not without encountering resistance. Sylvia Jones recalls the hostility she faced when she became the Daily Mirror's first female crime correspondent. "It caused the most enormous offence," says Jones, now a documentary filmmaker. "They tried to stop me joining the CRA and kept looking to see if there was some rule that could exclude me. Eventually the Mirror had to threaten to sue them under sex equality legislation. Even then they were hostile, not telling me when there were briefings and so on. They also spread rumours about me – that I was sleeping with people to get information. The rumours go on to this day and I'm 63. Chance would be a fine thing!"Jones became the CRA's first woman chair. "One of them even objected that I couldn't wear the chairman's chain of office because I didn't have the right male constitution, and I said, 'I don't have a beer belly but I do have quite a nice cleavage, so I'll have the chain shortened and wear it anyway.'"Of course, crime still attracts headlines when it is gruesome or strange enough, but the days of yards of criminal court reports in the press are long gone. Once there were seven Press Association reporters at the Old Bailey; now there are two. Major murder trials pass by uncovered in the press. The Daily Telegraph did not replace its last great full-time court reporter, Sue Clough, and the tradition of the "marmalade dropper" – a story so gobsmacking that a reader's morning toast would drop through open-mouthed incredulity – is gone. The days of the Big Five and the men in the belted macs have passed, and it is a long time since a shifty character in Soho warned a "crime man" that it was high time he was "done proper". But the lure of true crime remains. • If It Bleeds, by Duncan Campbell, a novel that celebrates crime reporting, is published in paperback by Headline Review at £7.99. To order a copy with free UK p&p, go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846. on August 6