The police federation yesterday attacked plans by the home secretary, David Blunkett, to reform the service - promising that a mass demonstration is a real possibility.Fred Broughton, chairman of a national organisation that represents rank and file staff, claimed yesterday that Mr Blunkett had portrayed some officers as "inefficient and lazy, for ever being accused of going off sick for no reason." In a speech today, he will say Mr Blunkett had "deeply insulted" members. "That's no way to motivate the people you need to make changes work." The Home Office, however, was unmoved. Sources said they were "surprised" to hear Mr Broughton's remarks, and by his decision to conduct a campaign to force changes to the white paper on police reform, which was published two weeks ago, through the media. Though Mr Blunkett has indicated he wants tighter controls over sick pay - and has promised a national police occupational health service aimed at getting sick officers back to work quicker - the Home Office said it did not believe Mr Blunkett had ever insulted officers in the terms suggested by the federation. Mr Broughton chaired an emergency meeting of more than 80 senior figures in the federation yesterday to discuss ways of protesting elements of the white paper. One possible plan is to stage a rally in Mr Blunkett's Sheffield constituency. Pay and the devolvement of some policing responsibilities to civilian auxiliaries and private firms are at the heart of the row. The Home Office has proposed extending the police working week by two hours and scrapping the overtime bonus, meaning that officers will get normal pay rather than time and one third for any extra hours. The federation is also infuriated that the government intends to introduce thousands of civilian wardens, known as community support officers, to help police on the streets. The police-employed CPOs, who will have the power to use "reasonable force" to arrest suspects, will be supplemented by private security guards and local authority wardens with limited powers. The changes in policing, which parliament will be asked to approve in the new year, are designed to tackle an area that ministers regard as one of the last great unreformed parts of the public services. "There two areas which are causing deep concern," Mr Broughton said yesterday. "The first is pay and conditions. Under the proposals the majority of police officers are going to be worse off and that is obviously not acceptable. There has also been talk of giving community wardens the power to detain and use force. That doesn't sound like modernisation. It sounds like policing on the cheap." The federation yesterday pointed to the results of an ICM poll it commissioned which suggested that 75% of the public wanted more police officers on the street rather than civilian auxiliaries. Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said there was "massive anger" among rank and file police officers about the home secretary's proposals."Certainly the Met is likely to lose between half and two-thirds of its officers over the next ten years," he said. The Home Office said that reform of pay and conditions was being discussed by the police negotiation board.