A top British judge recommended that farmer Tony Martin should serve a minimum of eight rather than nine years, for shooting dead a teenage burglar at his home, in August last year.Trial judge Mr Justice Owen jailed Martin for life for the murder of 16-year-old Fred Barras, but recommended he serve a nine-year minimum or "tariff", according to ITV's Tonight with Trevor MacDonald. But the Lord Chief Justice, Lord Woolf, believes mitigating circumstances mean that he should be considered for release in eight years time, the programme's makers say. Mr Justice Owen made his nine-year recommendation in a report to the home secretary, who is responsible for setting the final tariff. However, the copy sent to Mr Straw contained hand-written case notes from the Lord Chief Justice, the programme claims.Martin, who was recently moved to Gartree high-security jail in Leicestershire, is currently appealing against his conviction at Norwich crown court. Jurors found him guilty of murder by a 10-2 majority after hearing how he shot Fred Barras, who had attempted to burgle his remote farmhouse in Emneth Hungate, Norfolk. Tonight with Trevor MacDonald's producers say Lord Woolf wrote: "I note he initially considered fixing the tariff figure at eight years and, on the facts described, that is the figure I would have selected rather than the nine years on which the judge decided." A spokesman for Lord Woolf declined to comment on the reports and expressed concern about how the document had been obtained. Mr Justice Owen's report, which was also obtained by the Tonight programme, talks about public sympathy for Martin, who has reportedly had a £60,000 contract placed on his life since the killing. "Understandably there has been considerable sympathy for Martin who was a man without convictions, whose home was broken into and had it not been for the burglars he would not have committed his crimes," the judge is said to have written. "However, much of that sympathy is based on very inadequate accounts of the evidence. [The burglars] were given no chance to escape and Martin was not acting in reasonable self-defence. He fired intending really serious injury and certainly risked the lives of each of the burglars. He is never likely to re-offend but he deserves punishment," he added.