Customs officials deliberately withheld evidence in a £100m fraud trial, a judge said yesterday, staying the prosecution of five businessmen accused of a huge mobile phone VAT fraud.The judgment at the high court will be a major blow to customs, recently merged with the Inland Revenue and renamed Revenue and Customs. The collapse of the trial is the latest in a string of damaging legal judgments and acquittals which have led to a total of 13 men walking free in cases worth nearly £400m in lost taxes. During pre-trial hearings, customs accepted that there had been "misapprehension of the law, muddle and incompetence". But Mr Justice Crane said he did not accept that it had fully explained what had happened and why customs had withheld information from its own barrister which showed that its main witnesses could not be relied upon. "If prosecuting counsel were to be kept in the dark, there must have been a preparedness to keep the defence, the judge and ultimately the jury in the dark," the judge continued. "This issue of disclosure was not a matter of procedural skirmishing. Potentially it went to the heart of the case. I have seen no sign that those within [customs] recognise the seriousness of that possibility." The failure of disclosure revolved around evidence relating to a freight forwarding company called Hawk Precision Logistics, which shipped goods for the defendants. In criminal trials the prosecution is legally obliged to disclose any information that may question the honesty of its witnesses. After arrests in 2001, witness statements were taken from two members of Hawk's staff and they were put forward by customs as witnesses of truth. It was not until January 2004 that the defence was told customs would no longer be relying upon Hawk personnel as witnesses of truth. It emerged that the German authorities running telephone intercepts against a German company called Mobile World had picked up conversations providing "clear evidence that the Hawk witnesses were actively collaborating with Mobile World" in fraud. But despite knowing this over four months earlier, customs officials had failed to inform their own prosecuting barrister and, through him, the court. Ruling that there had been an abuse of the court process, the judge stayed the proceedings against Arif Chandoo, Amjad Baig, Sandeep Goletcha, Aqeel Ali and Kamal Uddin. Lack of disclosure in trials has been a major problem for customs since the late 1990s. During a series of flawed excise fraud trials revealed by the Guardian in 2002, customs failed to disclose vital evidence about the handling of a key informant at a bonded warehouse in sting operations where up to £2bn was lost in alcohol duty.In a statement, Revenue and Customs said it fully recognised "the importance of ensuring that defence teams are provided with all relevant material", but "it is not always immediately apparent or clear what documents fall as 'relevant'."