A police firearms officer was shot dead while trying to rescue two unarmed colleagues who were being held at gunpoint by a drunk man in a jealous rage, an inquest heard yesterday.PC Ricky Gray, 43, was shot in the head by Peter Medlicott, a 33-year-old rat-catcher who had been drinking for 11 hours and arguing with his girlfriend, Ethel Mildred Jones. Medlicott, described as a loner, then turned the .222 calibre rifle he used for pest control on himself.The inquest, which is expected to last five days, will cover the deaths of both men.The jury at Shrewsbury crown court heard that Medlicott and Jones had spent most of May 5 this year drinking in different pubs in Shrewsbury. They were thrown out of the Albert pub at around 6pm after arguing about a barmaid called Tracey.Detective Sergeant Alan Crossley said: "Jones formed the impression that Tracey was giving Medlicott the eye. Jones had told Medlicott that she was jealous of Tracey."After leaving the Albert, the pair went for more drinks at another pub. There they argued about Jones's housemate, who Medlicott believed "had a thing" for his partner, the inquest heard. The row worsened as the pair walked home and Medlicott began pushing Jones against some metal railings, kicking her and pulling out her hair. When they got back to her flat, he punched her in the face before walking out and going to his parents' home.But he returned to the flat just after 6am the next morning and began throwing things at her window, prompting Jones to call the police. Two unarmed officers who called at the flat were taken hostage by Medlicott and told to remove their radios. One of them managed to contact control, and Gray and his colleague Matthew Crisp were sent to the scene.Gray used an alleyway to get near the back of the flat, where he was shot by Medlicott, the inquest heard.Crossley said Medlicott's body was later found lying in a pool of blood with a rifle by his side.Postmortem examinations revealed both men had died instantly from single gunshot wounds to the head.Dr Peter Acland, a Home Office pathologist, said: "[Medlicott's] blood contained 178mg of alcohol. He was not staggeringly drunk but probably noticeably drunk so his decision-making process could have been affected."The inquest continues.