School caretaker Ian Huntley yesterday denied murdering Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman but pleaded guilty to conspiring to pervert the course of justice after the 10-year-old friends vanished in Soham, Cambridgeshire, last August.At the Old Bailey, Mr Huntley, 29, admitted lying about the whereabouts of his girlfriend, Maxine Carr, so she could corroborate his account of his activities at the time. Ms Carr, 26, who was a teaching assistant at the girls' school, St Andrew's primary in Soham, pleaded not guilty to the joint conspiracy charge and to two further charges of assisting an offender. Yesterday's hour-long hearing was the first time Mr Huntley and Ms Carr have stood in the same dock since their arrest. It was also the first time the families of Holly and Jessica had attended an appearance by either defendant. Mr Huntley was brought first into the raised dock of court number one. Wearing black trousers, a white shirt and grey tie, his black hair flecked with grey, he was surrounded by four guards. Ms Carr was brought up by three more guards. She wore a black trouser suit, pale blue shirt, and light red lipstick. The pair were separated by a guard. The families, accompanied by police family liaison officers, sat on a bench a few metres from the dock. Jessica's parents, Leslie, 52, and Sharon, 43, also a teaching assistant at St Andrew's, were on either side of their daughters, Rebecca, 17, and Alison, 15. Holly's father and mother, Kevin, 39, and Nicola, 35, sat close to the senior detectives who investigated the case, Detective Chief Superintendent Chris Stevenson and Detective Chief Inspector Andy Hebb. Watched by about 50 people who had packed into the public gallery and 60 journalists and court artists in the body of the court, Mr Huntley and Ms Carr both answered "Yes" in low voices when the court clerk asked them to confirm their names. As the charges were read out, the families of the girls, who went missing in the early evening of August 4 last year, glanced between the clerk and the defendants. Both Mr Huntley and Ms Carr entered their pleas in barely audible voices. The conspiracy charge - which Mr Huntley admitted but Ms Carr denies - alleges that the pair agreed to "falsely maintain to the police and/or to other persons that Maxine Carr was in Soham on the fourth day of August 2002 and on the fifth day of August 2002 and therefore able to corroborate the account of Ian Huntley as to his activities during the said two days." According to the two further charges relating to Ms Carr, she had provided "false accounts" of her own whereabouts and the activities and whereabouts of Mr Huntley, knowing or believing he had committed an offence. The murder charges allege that Mr Huntley killed Holly and Jessica after August 3 2002. The girls' bodies were found 17 miles from Soham, in woodland near Lakenheath, Suffolk, on August 17. After the pair made their pleas, the judge, Mr Justice Moses, adjourned the case briefly. The couple were remanded back into custody. Their trial is due to start on October 6.