A 30% cut in staffing levels at the rebuilt Manchester Strangeways jail - one of the prison service's showcase institutions - has jeopardised the safety of inmates, said a report by the chief inspector of prisons published yesterday.The loss of 270 staff at the prison, which was the scene of one of the worst riots in British penal history in 1990, was the price paid for the success of an "in-house bid" to run the jail against competition from private prison companies. The reduction in staffing levels was needed to meet the service level agreement in the new contract which was put in place when it reopened after the riot. But the report from the chief inspector of prisons, Anne Owers, also praised the "flexibility and positive approach" of staff and managers at Manchester and said their achievements, such as high levels of time out of cell and participation rates in work and education, were a lesson to many other prisons. She said that 12 years after the riots there was now much that was good about the culture and priorities of Manchester prison: "It is certainly not a prison giving major cause for concern." The chief inspector's report said that the reduction in staffing had been achieved by agreement over the six months before her official inspection in November last year. She said that the amount of time that the 1,200 inmates spent out of their cells was commendable but there was little for prisoners to do, other than congregate in one another's cells or on landings. The inspectors found too many bored and poorly motivated inmates on K wing which held those on remand and those unable or unwilling to take up education and training places. "Staff on duty were reluctant to engage with prisoners, tending to stay at one end of the long landings, where they would have been unable to identify or intervene in bullying within cells," said the chief inspector. She said that they were very concerned about safety with a third of the reported injuries to prisoners the result of assaults: "It is possible that staffing levels have been lowered to the extent that they are unsafe, and we believe that prison service headquarters should review the staffing profiles." The chief inspector said that the need to deliver on targets in the new contract had created the danger of a gap between the prison the managers wanted to run and the prison that was actually run. For example, the target for providing work for 60% of prisoners had been met but in some cases that meant no more than tea-bag packing which was unskilled. The report noted that overcrowding pressures had meant that half the beds in the healthcare centre were occupied by inmates who were not ill at all. A further 17 mentally ill patients were also in the healthcare centre when they should have been in secure NHS accommodation. The report also criticised the "degrading" conditions caused by rising prison numbers which meant that on some wings two prisoners were now sharing a cell meant for one with an unscreened toilet. The director general of the prison service, Martin Narey, welcomed the praise for Manchester and said he shared the concerns about overcrowding.