When William West brought his new girlfriend home from a trip to Africa six years ago, his friends in Hastings were surprised, and not a little concerned.She was 50 years his junior, they knew little about her past, and she knew nothing of his life on the south coast. But they said nothing when he whisked her off to Scotland and made her his wife. Last week, when she returned from a holiday at their seaside home in Gambia without him, saying he had simply vanished, they were understandably anxious. Yesterday they were digesting the news they had been dreading.Mr West's wife, Kate, 26, was under arrest in the Gambian capital, Banjul, on suspicion of murdering her 76-year-old husband. Sussex detectives asked her to return to the country this week and within 24 hours of her arrival in Banjul she was detained at a police station. Gambian police have told the Guardian that the next day she took them to the couple's coastal holiday home in the fishing village of Sanyang, half an hour's drive away, and led them to her husband's remains.Since then Mrs West, who denies murdering her husband, has been detained at police headquarters in downtown Banjul. Dressed in khaki slacks, a tight brown T-shirt and a brown headscarf, and wearing a large diamond ring, she was questioned by detectives again yesterday. A police spokesman, Aziz Bojang, said she was the "prime suspect being detained on a holding charge of murdering Mr West".Assistant Superintendent Demba Sowe said officers had yet to establish a cause of death. "We found the remains of a body in a condition that appears to be burnt, in the vicinity of Mr West's property. Whether he died as a result of burns or was set alight after his death has yet to be determined. Investigations are continuing into what has happened."At his detached home in Hastings yesterday, Mr West's friends, who knew him as Jar, were distraught. They last saw the retired businessman when he left on June 9 for a holiday with his wife."I spoke to him on June 14 when he was in Gambia," said Jim, one of his oldest friends and neighbours. "He was fine, he had to do some work on the roof of his house out there and had got builders in."It was on a similar break that the Dublin-born Mr West met his wife-to-be at the Ali Baba restaurant on the main tourist strip of beachfront outside Banjul. He was recently widowed and Kate had just arrived from Ghana - her birthplace - to join her sister, friends said.Mr West bought the house in Sanyang as a retreat during the British winter and, as regular visitors, the couple became well known. Mr West had many friends and became known for his generosity.Three months ago he arrived from the UK with two container loads of toys and clothes for the school in Banjul for blind children, one of many charitable gestures he made in Gambia over the years."He was the loveliest man you could hope to meet," said a British woman with a home nearby.The uncharacteristic lack of contact by Mr West on what was to be his last trip to Gambia began to cause concern among his British friends three weeks ago. Omar Jagne, a Gambia-born friend in London, was so worried he made repeated phone calls to Mr West's mobile. Two weeks ago he said he had spoken to Mrs West on the phone, and she had told him her husband had gone missing on a trip to Senegal.Mr Jagne contacted police in Sussex, who alerted Interpol and liaised with detectives in Gambia.Mrs West was interviewed by Detective Inspector Paul Phelps of Sussex police and she told him of her husband's trip to Senegal. Det Insp Phelps said she should return to Gambia to talk to police there about her husband's disappearance."She was under no obligation to go but I encouraged her to return and I gave her a letter from me to pass on to the police there," he said. Mrs West flew out on Tuesday with one of her husband's most trusted friends, his accountant, David Jenkins.She was taken into custody and her hotel room searched. In it, Gambian police say they found a copy of Mr West's will, stating that he wanted his ashes to be scattered with those of his previous wife, Doris.Police in Banjul were last night also questioning a man from Nigeria.Yesterday friends in Hastings were at Mr West's empty house looking after his dog, Shep."I remember Jar bringing Kate home with him and then later telling me he was going to surprise me and that they had got married in Scotland," said Jim, who would not give his surname.Mr Jagne said friends would make sure Mr West's remains were repatriated for a funeral."Jar didn't deserve this. He was 76, he loved Africa. The least we can do is make sure we bring him home to pay our last respects."