Back in February, I was contacted by a colleague on the Guardian. Two respected journalists from the US, who write about the penal system there, were coming to the UK and wanted to visit some prisons here. The colleague thought that, as the paper’s prisons correspondent, I could perhaps help out?It was a reasonable assumption; if I was the health correspondent, or wrote about education, I have no doubt I would have enabled visits to hospitals or schools for foreign hacks wanting to see how things are done here. Prisons are run on taxpayers’ money and the public have a right to know how their cash is being spent But I was far from sanguine. Prisons are, of course, closed institutions, but the shut-out extends beyond the bolts and bars – the prison service operates under a closed mentality. Unless you are a prisoner, a friend or relative of one, or a member of staff, you are unlikely ever to see inside any of the 136 prisons in England and Wales.And I was right not to be optimistic. I contacted the governor of a state-run prison and the director of a privately run jail. Both progressive people, who feel they have nothing to hide. Both said they would welcome the US journalists, only for the Ministy of Justice (MoJ) to step in and exercise its veto.The ban was ironic because, as bloated and repressive as the US penal system is, media access is a given, even on death row.Sharp rise in the proportion of black and ethnic minority young prisoners | Alastair Sloan and Eric Allison More recently, while researching the story of the increase in black and ethnic minority young people in prison, Alastair Sloan was invited by the Zahid Mubarek Trust to visit Feltham young offender institution (YOI). You may recall that in March 2000, Mubarek was murdered by his cellmate – a highly disturbed, dangerous, young man who should never have shared a cell with anyone – in Feltham. The MoJ has not said that Alastair can’t visit. Instead, it has stalled, a tactic it excels at.Getting into prisons has never been easy for journalists, but in recent years the MoJ has proved more and more reluctant to sanction media access. There are rare exceptions, when it allows friendly cameras into prisons in an attempt to show its good side, on its terms.Does it matter? Yes, very much. We know what goes on in schools, hospitals and many more public institutions. Why should we be barred from knowing what goes on in prisons? The way we treat people in custody will have a marked influence on the way they treat us when they are liberated.The prison system is in a worse state now than at any time in my experience. One damning inspection report follows another. Just last week, a report on Wetherby YOI found“Violence rising, with attacks on boys and staff becoming more frequent and more severe.” Inspectors found one in three children locked up during the working day, some for up to 23 hours a day. This is the latest in a long series of poor reports. Indeed, I can’t remember the last time inspectors had anything positive to say about a children’s prison. And this, from an administration that, in coalition, promised a rehabilitation revolution.Prisons are run on taxpayers’ money and the public have a right know how their cash is being spent. Nobody expects jails to have open days but journalists should be banging on the gates demanding entry.