Police were yesterday investigating the shooting of a woman in a busy Manchester street during an apparently bungled robbery.Janet Scott, 41, was hit in the leg as she and her husband, David, 62, were standing by a jewellers' shop in Manchester city centre at 12pm. It is thought a gun dropped from a man's jacket and went off accidentally. The man then ran away down the street. Mrs Scott was taken to hospital where she was said to be in a stable condition last night. A Greater Manchester police officer described it as a bizarre incident, which was very unusual for Manchester where gun crime was on the decrease. The shooting came as the Home Office released figures showing that crime cost £36.2bn last year in England and Wales, with just over half - £18.3bn - put down to the "physical and emotional impact" on victims. The statistics also revealed that the NHS spent £2.4bn of its £63bn budget dealing with injured victims in 2003/04. Another £4.3bn went in lost output, and just over £7bn was spent by the criminal justice system. Murder was the most expensive crime, with each homicide costing £1.5m. Sexual offences cost £31,400 each, serious woundings £21,400 and robberies £7,300. Burglary was found to cost the victim and society £3,300. The Home Office also published statistics estimating that 14.7m crimes were committed against children and adults in England and Wales in 2003/04. That was two-and-a-half times the total number of crimes recorded for the same period, and three million more than estimates in the latest British Crime Survey.Alcohol was once again revealed to be a significant factor in criminal behaviour. Half of all violent attackers had been drinking, compared with 40% in 1996. The proportion of violent attacks committed by a stranger under the influence of alcohol was 62%, compared with 55% in 1996. Both sets of statistics exclude crimes committed against companies and the public sector. Separate research, also published yesterday, showed confidence in the criminal justice system was low. A survey found that 76% were not confident that the system was effective in dealing with young people accused of crime, 68% did not believe it met the needs of victims, while 65% said it was not effective in reducing crime. Asked whether they thought cases were dealt with promptly and effectively, 62% said no, while 59% said offenders were not brought to justice. But 77% said the system respected the rights of people accused of crime, and 75% felt that court sentences were too lenient.