The mother of Gary Dobson, one of the men accused of the racist murder of Stephen Lawrence, told the Old Bailey on Wednesday that her son was making toast in the kitchen at the time of the killing.Pauline Dobson and her husband Stephen both gave evidence, at times giving a glimpse of how the unsolved murder has affected their lives over the last 18 years.At one point Mr Dobson, a carpenter, who was brought up in south-east London, described the number of times the police had seen and spoken to him since 1993. "I have seen so many police officers over the years, I cannot remember any of them," he said.His wife, speaking before him, told the jury: "That night will stay with me for ever."The couple's daughter, Gary Dobson's younger sister, Hayley, sat in the public gallery, clearly upset as her parents gave evidence. In the dock, Dobson – who, with his co-accused, David Norris, denies murder – stared ahead, acknowledging his father later with a smile as the older man left the witness box.Mrs Dobson told the court that she and her husband had had friends round for a curry on the night of the murder, 22 April 1993 – something they did every week.Gary, who was 17 at the time, had, she said, been at college all day and by the time her friends arrived at their home on the Brook Estate in Eltham, south-east London, at around 7pm or 7.30pm, he was in the house.Throughout the evening, as she ate curry and chatted with her friends, she said she was aware that her son was in his bedroom upstairs because she could hear his music, and him playing his computer game.At 10pm, as she took Hayley up to bed, she popped in to tell Gary to turn his music down. "He said, 'OK, mum,' but he still had his music on, maybe a little lower," said Mrs Dobson.She said her son had been wearing shorts with no shirt all evening – something he often did. "Steve had told him to put a T-shirt on earlier on, but when I saw him he still had his shorts on," she said."When I went to the kitchen at 10.30pm, I went out to make a cup of tea for Chris. Gary came down and made toast. He had a pair of shorts on – he never got changed. He was in his bedroom on the computer with his music on the whole time."Mrs Dobson said that her friends prepared to leave in a cab at around 11.10pm."Steve shouted to Gary that Chris and Sheila were going. Gary came down, kissed Steve, shook Chris's hand, and went back upstairs and played his computer."The court has been told that Lawrence, 18, was stabbed to death at around 10.35pm on Well Hall Road, Eltham, a short distance from the Brook Estate. At 11.45pm, the court heard Dobson say previously, he went to the house of his friends, the Acourts, to pick up a CD – something he did not tell police when first spoken to, and of which his parents were unaware.Mrs Dobson was challenged in cross-examination about the difference between her evidence in court and a statement she made to police in 1996, in which she said her son had made toast at 10.40pm or 10.45pm."Is there any reason why it has become 10.30pm when you come to give evidence?" asked Ellison.Mrs Dobson replied: "Sorry, give or take ten minutes, then. He was still in the same clothing as what he was at 7pm."But Ellison suggested the later time gave her son enough time to have gone out, committed the murder, returned to his house a short distance away, stripped down to his shorts and gone to the kitchen.Raising her voice slightly, Mrs Dobson replied: "No, he did not. No, he did not. Gary was in all evening."Dobson's father was asked about his son's racist and violent comments made in a police surveillance video 20 months after the murder. Mr Dobson said he had seen the video – unlike his wife, who testified that she could not watch it."That's not the boy I know," he said."If he was like that, it must be he was like that when not with you?" asked Ellison."I would know because he is my son and my son doesn't behave like that. He never has," said Mr Dobson."He does in that tape," said Ellison."I have seen it and I could not believe it," said Mr Dobson. "Because that boy does not behave like that, he is not that type of kid, he is a nice kid.""Face the fact he does behave like that," said Ellison.Mr Dobson replied: "I think what that is is a bunch of lads showing off."The case continues.