Following Joanna Yeates's disappearance the media and armchair detectives became fascinated by many puzzling elements of the case. Most have now been at least partially explained:The pizzaYeates bought a pizza as she walked home on the night she vanished. The receipt was found at her flat but not the pizza nor its box. She had not eaten it.The explanation: Tabak admits that he ate pizza on the evening he killed Yeates but denies it was hers. He claims he took the pizza and its box from her flat after killing Yeates and dumped it in a municipal bin. The prosecution suggested Tabak had eaten it.The two bottles of cider Yeates also bought two bottles of cider on her way home. This led to speculation she had bought one for her and one for a guest she was expecting.The explanation: CCTV footage of Yeates in the off-licence was shown in court. She picked up one bottle of cider, stepped away, then returned and grabbed a second, suggesting it had been a spontaneous purchase and was for her. According to the defence, Yeates opened one of the bottles and may have taken a sip from it before she was killed. When Yeates's boyfriend, Greg Reardon, returned home on Sunday evening he says he found the opened bottle and finished the drink. Tabak claims Yeates offered him a drink but he refused as he was driving later to pick up his girlfriend.The sockWhen Yeates's body was found one of her socks (in fact, one of Reardon's socks she had borrowed) was missing. One theory was that the killer had kept it as a trophy.The explanation: Tabak claims the sock fell off in Yeates's flat and that after he moved the body to his home he went back to her flat, took the sock and put it in a municipal bin.What happened to Yeates after she vanished?There was a great deal of speculation following Yeates's disappearance and after her body was found. Was she held captive before being killed? Is that why her body was not found for eight days? Was she left alive by the side of the road in sub-zero temperatures to die of hypothermia?The explanation: both the prosecution and defence accept she was killed soon after arriving home on the night she was last seen alive, and her body was dumped in a roadside verge not long afterwards. Fresh snow fell and covered her body, and few people walked along that lane.