A man who saw his brother beaten to death after they got lost on the tube yesterday expressed anger at the sentences handed out to four young attackers.Thomas Scott, 34, died without recovering consciousness after the attack outside Kentish Town tube station in north London, at the end of a night out to celebrate his brother Nicholas's birthday. He was punched with a knuckle duster at least twice, and his skull was fractured. A man of 20, a 17-year-old and two 16-year-olds were convicted of violent disorder. The eldest, Mohamed Ahmed, was sent to a young offenders institution for two years, while the three others, who cannot be named for legal reasons, were each given 18-month detention and training orders. Nicholas Scott described the outcome as sickening: "Criminals have more rights than victims. My brother is dead - but nobody is really paying the price for that, and I feel helpless about it. It is a pathetic day for justice but a great day for those four." He said of the gang: "They may have been 16 or 17 but they were grown men. There was nothing meek and mild about them. What kind of a country are we living in now, when all the allowances are made for the perpetrators and not the victims? We feel they have been let off completely. "The whole family has been waiting for the day when we would get justice for Tommy, but that day has never arrived. I am left feeling that I haven't done best for my brother." Mr Scott, 28, a graphic designer, spoke of his disbelief that getting lost on the tube could have led to such a tragedy. The brothers were on their way to his home in Hendon, north London, when they realised they had taken the wrong branch of the northern line. They got off at Kentish Town to change, but walked out of the station when they found the last train had gone. "It seems such a horrible thing that such a simple mistake changes everybody's lives," Mr Scott said. "You turn right and it's OK; but you turn left; and somebody dies." The four had been found not guilty of the murder or manslaughter of Thomas Scott, an antiques dealer from Newark in Nottinghamshire. But sentencing them at the Old Bailey Judge Martin Stephens QC told them: "Each participated in a violent and ultimately catastrophic incident in the early hours of October 20 2002. Each decided to take part in gratuitous violence, it seems to me, for fun - punching, kicking, throwing a large crate at someone, and causing fear and mayhem on a busy street at night." Mr Scott's last moments - laughing, joking and even dancing a jig with his brother, were caught on CCTV. Nicholas was left in tears shouting "cowards" as the attackers ran off.