Three out of four people in Britain think crime is rising, although official statistics show it has been falling for a decade. The finding, from an Observer /ICM poll, will be a disappointment for Ministers, who had been hoping they had turned a corner in public perceptions of crime.Two-thirds of voters think burglaries are increasing, whereas they fell by 11 per cent last year. Seven out of 10 think street crime is rising, even though it is stable. The poll, part of a Crime Uncovered supplement with today's Observer, reveals many people think heavier prison sentences, harsher treatment of young offenders and - most controversially - the introduction of identity cards and the death penalty would make Britain safer.The more affluent you are, the more likely you are to think there is an epidemic of crime. Nine in 10 people from households earning £50,000 or more a year think street crime is getting worse. That figure falls to four in 10 among people, mainly pensioners and those on benefits, whose annual income is less than £5,000. Older people are more likely to think crime is still rising. The poll highlights differing levels of public trust in local police forces. If they were the victim of a violent assault, four out of five people would report the offence to police. That figure slumps to 15 per cent among Londoners. Just over half of voters want more police on the beat, even though research suggests this may not be the best way to tackle crime. One in four believes more use of CCTV in public areas would help to cut crime. One in five voters would carry a gun if it were legal. That figure doubles among the affluent. Three in five support private security firms helping the police. Eighty per cent support the introduction of identity cards. And two-thirds think the death penalty should be reintroduced. This figure has remained stable for almost two decades, despite a string of miscarriages of justice that would have resulted in people who were eventually proved innocent, such as the Guildford Four, being executed. Simon Hughes, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: 'Sadly, the majority view in this case is wrong. The death penalty is much less effective than peo ple imagine. 'In terms of the bigger picture, all the evidence is that the carrot - and early intervention to prevent young people in particular going off the rails - works better than the big stick. Simplistic solutions sound good but are not nearly as effective as better thought through ones.' Almost one in three voters thinks harsher sentences would be the best way to cut crime. Juliet Lyon, director of the Prison Reform Trust, said: 'Sadly, there's no evidence at all that longer sentences reduce reoffending. Too often, all that prisons do is to incapacitate offenders.' Public fear of crime has often been exploited for electoral purposes, even though today's poll reveals two in five voters think governments are 'powerless' to tackle crime. Tony Blair sprang to prominence as shadow Home Secretary in 1993 after announcing a future Labour government would be 'tough on crime; tough on the causes of crime'. In spite of a recent downturn, reported crime is still massively higher than it was 81 years ago. In 1921, there were 103,000 recorded offences in England and Wales. In 2002, there were more than five million.  ·  ICM Research interviewed a random selection of 1,025 people across Britain aged over 16 by self-completion questionnaire.  ·  ben.summerskill@observer.co.uk