A teenager has been found guilty of murdering a high-ranking civil servant at his home after they met via the gay social networking app Grindr.Ben Bamford, 18, inflicted more than 40 injuries during a “sustained attack” on Paul Jefferies, 52, including slashing his throat.Jefferies, a senior HM Revenue and Customs official who reportedly advised George Osborne’s Treasury team, was found naked with a tea towel over his head on his kitchen floor in Mayfield, East Sussex, in February.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   The home of Paul Jefferies in Mayfield, East Sussex. Photograph: Gareth Fuller/PALewes crown court heard how Bamford had sought to rob Jefferies on 23 February because Bamford was under pressure to repay drugs debts of about £400.Bamford, of Crowborough, denied murder, claiming he was protecting himself from Jefferies after he had “come on to him”. Jurors convicted him after deliberating for three hours. Bamford stood emotionless, flanked by two dock officers, as the verdict was announced by the jury foreman. His mother, Annmarie, cried next to her husband, Richard, as the judge, Mr Justice Spencer, adjourned sentencing until Wednesday. He said “a little time for reflection” was needed to consider the sentence, partly due to the fact Bamford was 17 at the time of the murder.Jefferies, described by colleagues as “diligent, personable but very private”, moved to Sussex from London about five years before his death.He and Bamford met via Grindr about two years before the killing and resumed contact in December 2015 after a break. Unknown to Jefferies, by the time they met again Bamford was “desperate” for money to settle drugs debts, under pressure from a dealer called Glen.Text exchanges between Bamford and Glen were read in court. One, sent by Glen on the day of the killing, read: “I’m not happy. On my boy’s life, I will see you today.” In another, Glen accused Bamford of “treating me like a mug”. Bamford replied: “I will get it to you. Don’t worry.” Bamford told the court he had met Jefferies in the hope he would give him money, as he had done in the past. Bamford claimed he stabbed Jefferies to protect himself after he “got on top of me” and continued to have sex after being told to stop. After leaving Jefferies on the kitchen floor, Bamford took Jefferies’ car and drove to Eastbourne District general hospital, where he was admitted after claiming he had self-harmed, to avoid police involvement. Jurors were shown a selfie picture of Bamford flicking his middle finger while lying on his hospital bed. His mother told the court she was left “dumb-founded” after he told her he had killed someone, as he recuperated at home following an operation for his injuries. She went online to find anything to support his claim and found a report of a suspicious death in Mayfield. “I said to Ben: ‘We need to go to the police,’ and he said: ‘Yes, I know,’” she said. After the verdict, DCI Tanya Jones, who led the investigation for Surrey and Sussex major crime team, said: “This was a horrific attack by a teenage boy who preyed on his victim with the aim of exploiting him for money. The level of violence he inflicted on Paul Jefferies was extreme and then he fled the scene in his victim’s car.“He showed no remorse, smirking for a selfie photo just hours later … Although this can never undo what he has done, I hope it will bring some justice for Paul’s family, friends and colleagues.”Jefferies’ colleague, Adrian Cooper, the deputy director of specialist personal tax at HMRC, said: “Paul was a highly valued colleague and friend. While he was private and reserved, he was also a warm and humorous man, kind, thoughtful, professional and dedicated to public service. He will be sadly missed and fondly remembered by all who worked with him.” 