Public agencies such as government departments mounted more than 6,000 surveillance operations on staff and members of the public last year, it emerged today. It was the first time data had been disclosed on the scale of surveillance by non-police organisations. Standards in some government departments which use the controversial techniques were condemned as "consistently poor" by watchdogs. The Office of Surveillance Commissioners (OSC) revealed that public authorities mounted 6,398 cases of "directed surveillance" - which do not involve intrusive methods such as bugging - from April 2003 to March 2004. More than 1,100 were still in place at the end of the 12-month period. Regarding surveillance by local councils, chief commissioner Sir Andrew Leggatt said: "Although there have been considerable improvements, there are indications that some public authorities are failing to maintain the required standards. "The inspection process over the past year has revealed many examples of bad practice and quite basic errors." The OSC report said "quite a large proportion" of local councils had systems in place to set up surveillance operations which were "below the required standard". Twelve government departments and quangos were inspected during the year - including Defra, the Home Office's immigration service and prison service, the national assembly for Wales and the financial services agency. The group was singled out for particular criticism, although individual organisations were not named and shamed by Sir Andrew. "It is unfortunate that a few remain consistently poor," said his report. "I intend to keep under review the question of whether those who make limited or no use of covert activities should continue to be entitled to authorise them." He added: "In those public authorities where standards are beginning to slip, I shall be looking for greater personal involvement and direction by chief officers." The OSC said law enforcement agencies mounted a further 26,986 cases of directed surveillance, plus the use of a further 5,907 informants and undercover officers. In categories of more serious surveillance, police and other law enforcement agencies were granted 2,483 authorisations to interfere with someone's property and 447 authorisations to carry out intrusive techniques such as bugging someone's home. Sir Andrew said that, in this more serious category, he was satisfied applications received "a high level of attention" by authorising authorities. However, five authorisations were quashed compared with one the year before. Sir Andrew also pinpointed problems with law enforcers' use of directed surveillance and the use of informants and undercover officers. "Though matters are improving, the management of directed surveillance is still uneven and there is still an tendency not to recognise as covert human intelligence sources [those] who should be so recognised," said Sir Andrew. Today's report also showed local councils used 273 informants and undercover officers in the period. Sir Andrew recommended that NHS Trusts and Special Health Authorities should no longer be allowed to mount surveillance, along with the Serious Fraud Office.