This is the edited transcript of an interview with Jane Bannister, 20, the former girlfriend of Lin Mu Yong, who was today sentenced to four years in prison for facilitating illegal immigration, and 10 months for unrelated counterfeit offences.His cousin, Lin Liang Ren, was jailed for 14 years after being convicted of unlawfully killing 21 cockle pickers in the Morecambe Bay tragedy.Tell me something about the background to all of this - the night itself and how you came to know Lin Mu Yong. I met him in a chip shop then I lived with him.What kind of man is he? He's a user. He just thinks of himself. He was nice when he wanted to be. What attracted you to him? I fancied Chinese men. He was interesting, fun to be with and different. He was young. Can you tell me a bit about the background of the night, when you called the emergency services? What was happening that evening in your life? We [Ms Bannister, Lin Mu Yong and Zhao Xiao Qing] were just driving round, sorting things out and doing the rounds. We were going to the chip shop, fixing cars and things. We had a phone call [from one of the cocklers] and I rang the coast guard.What did the person say when they phoned you? No one called me. Someone called Yammie [Lin Mu Yong] or Eva [Zhao Xiao Qing], then I rang the coast guard to say how high the water was getting. What were they saying? They were saying how high the water was getting. It was up to their waists, you could hear the water. What were you planning to do in Morecambe? I was just going along in the car with them for something to do. What were they planning to do? I don't know. But you knew you were going to Morecambe? I knew we were going to Morecambe. We were just going up to take some clothes for Lin [Liang Ren]. Can you tell us what kind of individuals Lin Mu Yong and Lin Liang Ren were? What was Lin Liang Ren like first of all? We had a good relationship, we lived with him. We had a good relationship. As far as I knew he was a nice guy. [At this point Ms Bannister starts crying and has to have a break from the interview. She comes back into the room, reads a short statement and then takes some more questions.] How has all this affected your life? I It's changed it. One night, it just takes one night to destroy people's lives. Like all those families, it's not right. No one should get away with that, no one.Do you deeply regret being involved with those accused, those who have now been found guilty? Yes. What do you think of Lin Liang Ren now? He doesn't care about anyone but himself. When he knew they were in trouble he didn't think about them and help them. He was more concerned about himself and getting himself out of trouble. It was his own people and he just didn't care. He just cared about his wallet, what was in his wallet, that was it. What scene did you come across on the night of the tragedy? Mayhem. It was like something out of a movie. It was harrowing. It was so sad, just all those people, but there's only so much you can do. It was just too late. Were you scared about giving evidence? Were you worried about a backlash from Ren's family? I was terrified. But I knew what I had to do and I knew what I was doing was right. You said during your evidence that Ren and Lin Mu Yong spent nights in the casino. Can you tell us about that? They spent stupid amounts of money. It was crazy. How much money? One time in the casino Lin [Liang Ren] put £600 down on the table and I said 'That's my wedding dress'. It was nothing to them, it was like Monopoly money. Did he win? [Laughing] No. So he lost? He has now, hasn't he? You were due to get married at the time of the tragedy, in March 2004. March 6.Can you tell us anything about that? Did Lin Mu Yong propose? What was it like? [Mumbling] For a passport. So he wanted to marry you so he could stay in the country? I thought he was marrying me for love. Have you been in contact with Lin Mu Yong since he was arrested? I never spoke to him, I never rang him, nothing. You were also pregnant at the time of the tragedy. You said during you evidence that you were worried you might have your baby in prison. I was arrested for manslaughter. I was pregnant. It's not nice is it? When you did everything you could and you're sitting there by yourself it's not nice, it's scary. Do you still think about the night of the tragedy? Every day. There's not a day when I don't think about it. Do you have any regrets? Looking back, is there anything you would do differently? No. I did the right thing. I can sleep at night, they can't.