The parents of Melanie Hall, who vanished from a nightclub in Bath 20 years ago, have offered £50,000 of their own money for information leading to the conviction of the person or people who murdered their daughter.It is the first time the mother and father of the hospital worker, whose remains were found next to a motorway slipway in 2009, have put up a reward in the hope it may lead to the breakthrough they are desperate for. On Monday Melanie’s father, Steve Hall, said: “We believe we’re in touching distance of a significant breakthrough and feel it’s the right time to offer a substantial reward to encourage someone to come forward with information.“Someone may have been wavering over whether to provide information for a long time. This amount of money is life-changing and I hope it will provide the incentive for them to do the right thing. The loss of Melanie has been life-changing for us and we’ll never be the same people as we were before Melanie disappeared.Melanie Hall murder investigators recover DNA evidence “Melanie’s murder has had a terrible impact on our family and I know my wife Pat is tortured by what happened to our daughter and will never get over it.” This month, police revealed they were working with forensic scientists to develop a DNA profile from an item found where Melanie’s remains were discovered by workmen in vegetation next to the junction 14 northbound slipway of the M5. Hall said: “We’ve been kept fully informed by the police of updates in this investigation and we know the development of a DNA profile from an item found at the scene where Melanie’s remains were found is a major leap forward.“I believe this inquiry will be solved by one of two things – either through the advancement of DNA helping to identify who was responsible, or someone who knows a crucial piece of information having the moral fibre to contact the police. I hope by us offering this reward, it’ll encourage this person or these people to come forward.”Melanie was last seen at 1.10am on 9 June 1996, sitting on a stool at the edge of the dancefloor in Cadillacs nightclub (now ClubXL) in Walcot Street, Bath, after a night out with friends.DS Andy Bevan, who is leading the inquiry, said: “Melanie’s family have been a pillar of support to our investigation team and we’re doing everything we can to relieve their agony and find who was responsible for her murder.“We hope the money being offered by Steve and Pat will encourage someone to come forward with information. Someone out there has a very dark and terrible secret, which is getting closer to being revealed.”The crucial questions police are asking are:• Did you see Melanie after 1.10am on Sunday 9 June? Did you see her leave Cadillacs nightclub, or see who she was with, at any time after this?• Were you in Cadillacs nightclub in Walcot Street that night? It was the evening where England drew 1-1 with Switzerland in the opening game of the football Euro ’96 Championships? If you were there and haven’t spoken to police, please call us.• Did you see any suspicious activity or a vehicle parked on the northbound J14 slipway of the M5 – the Thornbury turn-off – from the early hours of Sunday 9 June 1996 or the days or weeks afterwards?• Are you concerned about the change in behaviour of a friend or relative, or anyone showing a particular interest in this inquiry?• Do you have information on where Melanie’s clothing or belongings may be? They have never been found. They include a pale blue silk dress with a round neck, black suede mule shoes with straps across the front and an open toe, size 5 or 6, a cream single-breasted, long-sleeved jacket and a black satchel-type handbag.• In Melanie’s handbag were cosmetics and a Midland cheque book and bank card. Also missing are items of jewellery, including a Next watch with expanding bracelet and silver drop earrings. Where are these items? Have you ever seen them?• The Operation Denmark incident room can be contacted on 0117 952 9788 or alternatively 101 and ask for the Operation Denmark team.The £50,000 reward will be for information provided to the police which leads to the arrest and conviction of the person or people responsible for Melanie’s murder. 