The senior police officer who was widely expected to become Britain's first Asian chief constable has failed to get the job, it was announced yesterday.Tarique Ghaffur, 46, an assistant commissioner with the Metropolitan police, was considered the front runner to become Greater Manchester police's new chief constable. But following interviews with four shortlisted candidates, the Greater Manchester police authority announced yesterday that it had appointed Metropolitan police assistant commander Michael Todd. Mr Todd, 44, will take over after the retirement of David Wilmot, who has been chief constable for 11 years. Mr Wilmot, who will leave at the end of September, will continue to lead the force during the Commonwealth Games in Manchester in July and August and then retire. Greater Manchester police force is the largest in England with 7,200 officers, 3,400 support staff and an annual budget of more than £400m. Stephen Murphy, chairman of the Greater Manchester police authority, said: "We are delighted to offer the job to Mike. It was a unanimous decision and I am sure he will relish the challenges and opportunities of taking the police service forward in Greater Manchester." Mr Murphy said the authority could not base the appointment on media speculation. "We have made the appointment based on what we have seen over the last two days," he said. "Everyone agreed that we have got an individual who is clearly the better candidate." Mr Todd has also worked for Nottinghamshire police, where he was an assistant chief constable and with Essex police, where he was a chief superintendent. Assistant commissioner Ghaffur, who is the fourth highest ranking officer in London, began his police career in Greater Manchester almost 30 years ago. His family had fled Uganda to escape the regime of Idi Amin. He said when he walked into Salford police station for his first day at work in 1974, the desk sergeant did not believe he was a policeman and would not let him into the building, until an inspector vouched for him.After 15 years working with Greater Manchester police, where he worked his way to chief inspector, he joined Leicestershire police as a superintendent and eventually moved to Lancashire as assistant chief constable. He joined the Metropolitan police in 1999 as a deputy assistant commissioner and his current role as assistant commissioner is the technical equivalent in rank to a chief constable. He is Britain's most senior Asian police officer and is responsible for policy review and standards. His job includes dealing with internal investigations, such as those to combat corruption, as well as handling complaints. Mr Ghaffur has a degree in public administration and an MA in criminology and is married with two children. Members of his family still live in Manchester. The other shortlisted candidates for the job included Colin Cramphorn, 45, who is deputy chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, and Peter Fahy, 42, deputy chief constable of Surrey. The appointment of Mr Todd is subject to medical clearance and the approval of the home secretary, David Blunkett.