The father of the first British woman to be found guilty of joining Islamic State has described her as “the perfect daughter” and said it was a “mistake” for her to travel to Syria. Tareena Shakil, 26, told her family she was going to Turkey on a beach holiday with her toddler son, but secretly fled across the border to Syria.During a two-week trial, the jury heard that Shakil, from Birmingham, said she wished to become a “martyr” when she left the UK in October 2014, but also claimed she only travelled to Syria because she wanted to live under sharia law.Speaking to ITV News Central, Shakil’s father, Mohammed, said it was a “mistake” for his daughter to take her 14-month-old son to Isis’s de facto capital, Raqqa. Speaking from his home in Burton-upon-Trent, Staffordshire, he said: “It was a mistake, that’s right. “[She is] the perfect daughter, the daughter who never went out nightclubbing and never went out doing this or going there, who kept herself busy in studies, and who wanted to be somebody in life and have an important role. That’s who she wanted to be: a somebody, not a nobody.”   Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   Police interview with Tareena Shakil – videoDuring the trial at Birmingham crown court, the jury were shown tweets, messages and photographs from Shakil, including images of the black flag of Isis and passages calling on people to take up arms, and stating her wish to become a martyr. Photographs recovered from her phone showed images of her with an AK-47 assault rifle, holding a handgun, and wearing a balaclava. Another showed her standing by an Isis flag while carrying her child.Tareena Shakil: 'I don’t want sympathy … it was my decision to go to Syria' Shakil, formerly of Burton-upon-Trent, told jurors she returned to the UK in February last year after realising she had “made a mistake”, and was arrested at Heathrow airport.Her father told ITV News Central: “The only evidence against her in all this was her own phone that she brought with her. If she was that much of a mastermind and she left her phone behind, no one could have even said she was there.Hundreds of Britons caught trying to join jihadis, says foreign secretary “I did everything, fought tooth and nail to get my daughter back in the first place and helped her get back. If my daughter today is sitting in prison, I should be sitting with her. I should be the ‘mastermind’ behind her, because I helped my daughter to get her back [to the UK] and she listened to this fool.”When asked if he ever felt his daughter was a terrorist, Mohammed Shakil told the programme: “Not for one millisecond, no. My daughter is god-fearing. If there was one element in her and I did think she was a threat to national security, I swear to God I would disown her. She would be no daughter of mine.” He added that the family planned to appeal against the conviction.Shakil, who was also found guilty of encouraging acts of terrorism through messages posted on Twitter, will be sentenced on Monday.