We should feel a lot safer in the capital now there has been a fall in the number of crimes being committed. Londoners must surely be happier that burglaries, robberies and vehicle crime have decreased – the latest figures show a fall from 850 to 800 a month. Safer, that is, if you don't resemble a "terrorist" in the eyes of your friendly neighbourhood police officers.Recently, I was stopped in my car by three officers, one of whom helpfully said that because I had been sticking precisely to the speed limit and because there was a wire she could see in my rear window, they had considered I might be a terrorist. (The wire concerned is the electrical one commonly found in cars to power the heated glass of the rear windscreen.) Now, because of the deadly 7/7 attacks in London and the subsequent foiled bomb plot, the public should be pleased about heightened police vigilance. But I would have thought that the legitimate pursuit of suspected terrorists is a sophisticated, hi-tech business, involving the police, security services and a network of informants. So, it concerns me that in high-crime Southwark – a hot spot for youth-on-youth murders – where I was stopped, valuable police resources are being wasted, with three cops on their motorised beat tailing a middle-aged man in a BMW.And yes, I am black, but I would not dream for a moment of scoring a cheap point about racism – even though my appearance evidently led officers to believe I potentially fit the identikit image of someone likely to use explosives in pursuit of a political cause. As we know, from the case of Brazilian Jean Charles de Menezes, who was mistaken for the Ethiopian failed terrorist, Hussain Osman, such misapprehensions can have deadly consequences: de Menezes was shot to death by firearms officers at Stockwell tube station in south London three years ago. What I would like is for the 31,500-strong Metropolitan Police to put the necessary resources into cracking down on violent youth-on-youth crime. There have been more than two dozen such murders this year, and a Peckham robbery squad detective told me that the theft of mobile phones, music devices and money among teenagers is an "insoluble problem". My own 15-year-old son was stabbed, while walking with some friends, at Peckham Rye – because he wasn't "a Lewisham boy". Like many black London parents, I would like to see more stop and searches by police of anyone reasonably suspected of carrying a weapon.Yet, police officers I have spoken with say they won't do so because of "a lack of community support". They are fearful of the sort of backlash that greeted the racially-biased "Operation Swamp" stop and searches back in 1981. After the Stephen Lawrence murder and implementation by the Met of the Macpherson inquiry recommendations, however, black community and police relations have considerably improved. Instead of haphazard and unreliable checks on motorists in the name of anti-terrorism, let's see police tackling a scourge that reliably and predictably causes more death and mayhem on our streets. I know that there would be a huge collective cheer in my area if that happened.