The stepfather of missing Tia Sharp has said her family are "in bits" as the search for the missing 12-year-old enters its fourth day.David Niles, 29, said: "I just want to find my little girl. How would you feel if it was your daughter? We're in bits. The whole country has helped us and is supporting us."I haven't slept in four days. Natalie [Tia's mother] is in bits. The police have done everything."Natalie Sharp told the Croydon Advertiser: "We all feel terrible. We think she's been taken but we just don't know. There is no CCTV. We know absolutely nothing. I wish to God I could tell you something. My baby girl walked out and she vanished."Tia lives with her family in Mitcham but had been staying with her grandmother, Christine Sharp, in New Addington, south London. She has not been seen since leaving the house at about midday on Friday. Police say the last person who saw her was Christine Sharp's partner, Stuart Hazell.Niles said: "The last time I saw her was on Thursday morning before going to work [at the family home in Mitcham]. She had a friend stay over. She was good as gold."I know I am not her real dad, but I have been there since day dot. I have fed her and bathed her. I just want her home."Christine Sharp said she hoped a CCTV image of her granddaughter taken at a nearby Co-op store the day before she disappeared and issued by police on Monday would jog people's memories. Detectives say they have had 55 reported sightings of Tia, but none has been substantiated.Det Chief Inspector Nick Scola, from the Metropolitan police's specialist crime and operations unit, told a press conference at Scotland Yard on Monday that police knew Tia had travelled to New Addington "part way on a tram by herself, and then met her grandmother's partner at East Croydon station". The CCTV image shows her wearing a yellow vest top with an image of an animal on the front – possibly of a cat or dog – tight, faded jeans and Ugg boots. Police believe Tia was wearing the same top and jeans when she went missing, said Scola. However, she was wearing black Nike trainers with a pink tick when she left her grandmother's home."We have had a good response to our appeals," said Scola. "Searches are continuing in the area around Tia's grandmother's address. CCTV is being collated and viewing continues."We know Tia was at her grandmother's house and slept late on the morning of Friday 3 August. She then left to get the bus. She told her grandmother's partner she was going out. He was the last person to see her that we are aware of at this time."Scola said: "We have recovered a number of items but we now know that they do not belong to Tia."