Anyone interested in understanding the government's approach to youth justice should check out the online version of the arcade game, Whac-a-mole. Fairly self-explanatory, the aim of the game is to thump emerging moles into their holes with a large hammer. Much like the youth justice system, the point is not to address the root cause of the problem, but to hit the re-emerging offenders as many times as possible in order to score the maximum number of points (read: government targets).This criticism of the judicial system has been made by the ex-Youth Justice Board chairman, Rod Morgan. In a report for Kings College, Morgan argues that young people are being criminalised by a police force under pressure to hand out more and more cautions for less and less sinister offences – a trend that helps to explain why the number of under-18s dealt with by the judicial system has risen by more than a quarter since 2002.Treating petty offences as criminal acts brands young people as lawbreakers, wastes police time and distracts resources from more serious affairs. A far better approach, as recently suggested by the Lib Dems, would be to deal with minor offences in the community. They have proposed a system of community panels, whereby young offenders would be required to appear before local people, apologise in person, and pay the cost in a way that forces them to acknowledge the consequences of their behaviour. They might, for example, have to scrub off the graffiti they've sprayed, or do the shopping for the elderly person they've robbed. Labour ministers have dismissed this proposition as a "soft option", but having to look your victim in the eye and publicly acknowledge your behaviour is a lot more difficult than simply filling out your name and address for a bored policeman issuing yet another government caution.Dealing with sentences in the community has two other advantages over the government's current thwack-and-run approach. First, it works to promote a sense of empathy in offenders. Conscience is the best (and cheapest) safeguard against antisocial behaviour, and coming face-to-face with a victim helps offenders understand the effects of their actions – something that is too often left unacknowledged. Second, involving the community in coping with antisocial behaviour creates accountability. When local people know their younger neighbours, they can make sure that they don't slip off the radar. They can keep an eye on individuals who are continuing to cause trouble, and keep the other eye looking out for them if they're falling into the wrong crowd or need some support. These systems of accountability are what is needed to prevent reoffending, not a simplistic thwack on the wrist from the punitive hammer.Whac-a-mole might be an amusing game, but there is something sinister about the analogy. For many young people, simply raising their heads in the community is grounds for a thwack. In the last year we have seen a wave of policies penalising young people before they've committed an offence. Mosquitoes are punishing young people simply for "hanging around" public spaces. Blanket curfews are being imposed for youths on estates in Cornwall. Stop and search policies are on the increase, and they've even started in schools.Labour needs to acknowledge that this game isn't working, and the Conservatives need to realise that thwacking harder won't make any difference. The one space for praise is the Lib Dems. They alone have the courage to lay down their hammers and address the problems of antisocial behaviour alongside the communities it affects.