Police were called out on average 165 times a week to bookmakers in 2012-2013 – yet money-laundering suspicions represented just 1% of all reports to policing authorities.The weekly figure was calculated using the Gambling Commission's response to a freedom of information request in which it reveals that there were 8,599 customer incidents in betting shops requiring police assistance. During the same period just 98 suspicious activity reports (SARs) were submitted to the regulator by bookmakers and passed on to the now defunct Serious Organised Crime Agency.Critics have asked whether there is a low level of reporting of the use of fixed odds betting terminals for money laundering.A recent letter to the Association of British Bookmakers, an industry trade body, from the commission warned betting shops that their most profitable electronic games – fixed odds betting terminals (FOBTs) – presented a "high inherent money laundering risk" due to the "accessibility, volume of business and general anonymity of play".When Tom Watson, the MP and former Labour party chairman, raised the prospect of banning FOBTs at prime minister's questions in October, he won assurances from David Cameron that the government would take a "proper look" at the machines. Watson says "bookies have become high-street digital casinos. They're now a haven for drug traffickers who seek to launder their ill-gotten gains through fixed odds betting terminals. Bookmakers are no longer a place to have a flutter and a chat with your mates. With over 165 police callouts a week, they're a haven for trouble and maybe it's time for the gambling industry to pay for the costs of policing. The remedy is simple: reduced stakes and fewer licenses will help us clear up the effect of these pernicious machines".But Dirk Vennix of the ABB said lower stakes would not help. "There is no evidence to suggest the betting industry poses any high risk for money laundering."The machines, which contribute more than half the bookmakers' profits, allow players in relative secrecy to bet £100 every 20 seconds on casino games.In the past few months the industry has claimed "hardly any people try to launder money through betting shops" and argued new anti-money laundering measures proposed by the European commission should not apply to bookmakers.The ABB said the industry had received just 250 inquiries from police investigating suspicious transactions. It said the European directive's level of scrutiny is unwarranted as in 2012-2013 just 89 of the UK's 230,000 money laundering cases related to betting shops.The regulator criticised this apparent indifference to what constituted criminal activity. It pointed out that these claims had been made despite the ABB being told that "the low level of suspicious activity reporting is not a reliable indicator of risk". In fact the commission said the way the industry risk is assessed would be "in need of further development". Vennix said the industry had decided "to agree to disagree with the regulator on this".Bookmakers say they report suspicious activities that may "relate to money laundering or use of the proceeds of crime". The company's security teams then review theSARs and decide, if appropriate, to submit them to the regulator.• This article was amended on 27 November 2013 to clarify the position on reports relating to money laundering suspicions.