Police should have prevented part of the terrifying ordeal suffered by a three-year-old girl who was sexually assaulted by the paedophile Craig Sweeney, a watchdog said yesterday.The Independent Police Complaints Commission said officers lost vital time by treating the abduction of the girl as a kidnap for a ransom, though Sweeney was a convicted child sex attacker.Delays meant Sweeney was able not only to assault the girl in his flat in south Wales but to prolong the horror by putting her in his car and driving her across the Severn bridge into England. He was only caught when he was spotted driving through a red light in Wiltshire and chased by local officers.The IPCC's Wales commissioner, Tom Davies, concluded that while it could not be proved that the police should have stopped the girl being attacked at all, officers ought at least to have got to Sweeney before he fled.Mr Davies made a series of recommendations about how South Wales police handled the incident and called for some of the systems used to monitor sex offenders nationally to be looked at again. It was also revealed that a superintendent and inspector will face a misconduct panel over the incident. A second superintendent who would have faced disciplinary action has retired.Sweeney, 24, abducted the girl from her home in Cardiff shortly before 10.30pm on January 2. Immediately, members of her family dialled 999 and gave police Sweeney's name. At first police treated it as a "kidnap for gain" and lost valuable time. There were also a series of delays and confused actions as officers of various ranks attempted to pinpoint details of Sweeney's history.He was able to flee at 12.10am from his flat in Newport to Wiltshire, where his car happened to be spotted going through a red light an hour later. During a high-speed chase he lost control of the vehicle, crashed and was caught at 1.28am.Sweeney was jailed for life at Cardiff crown court in June, but was told he could apply for parole after five years and 108 days, a sentence which was criticised as lenient by many, including the home secretary, John Reid, and has prompted the government to look again at sentencing policy.The three-year-old's father complained to the IPCC that police blundered in not getting to Sweeney before he assaulted his daughter.Mr Davies said he partially upheld the complaint. "Had there been prompt and appropriate action ... there was a potential to prevent Child A being subjected to a ... terrifying ordeal when Sweeney was able to leave his home address and cross the Severn bridge into England."The commissioner said the decision to treat the incident as a kidnap for gain was "arrived at incorrectly and followed by officers of increasing seniority during the early crucial part of the incident". He also flagged up "failings in the transmission of information, the interpretation of information and the scrutiny of information" which led to a delay in getting to Sweeney.Mr Davies called for South Wales police to "sharpen and clarify" its procedures in dealing with such an incident and set up more live exercises. He also said police chiefs across the country should "revisit policies and monitoring of the systems dealing with registered sex offenders".Sweeney had been convicted of sexually assaulting a six-year-old child when he snatched the girl. His licence period for the earlier attack had expired just days before he struck again. The IPCC report picked out failings in how details of his past offending was being held, and a further inquiry will look in detail at how he was being monitored at the time of the attack on the three-year-old.In a statement last night the victim's family said they had decided to take legal action against South Wales police. "[The force] could, in our opinion, have prevented all of the attacks on our child."They added that Sweeney should have been back in jail at the time of the assault as the IPPC report highlighted a "prior incident of concern" which happened after he was released from prison for an earlier attack on a child but before he abducted the three-year-old.The family also claimed the probation service and the multi agency public protection arrangements - the system designed to monitor dangerous offenders after they are released from prison - "let our child down severely".They added: "Through our solicitors, we are now pursuing a civil action against South Wales police for their failure to protect our child, against this known and dangerous child molester."The South Wales police chief constable, Barbara Wilding, apologised to the family. "We let them down, and for this I am sorry," she said.