A BBC presenter who claimed on a television programme to have killed his dying partner is to be charged with wasting police time, it was revealed today.Ray Gosling told the East Midlands Inside Out programme in February that he had smothered his lover, who was dying of Aids in hospital. Gosling said his partner had been in "terrible pain" when a doctor told him there was nothing more that could be done. He said he asked the doctor to leave them alone and then "I picked up the pillow and smothered him until he was dead".Gosling, 71, repeated the claims on the BBC's Breakfast programme the next day, and was arrested on suspicion of murder 36 hours after the original programme aired. He answered police bail today, and has been summoned to Nottingham magistrates court next month to face the charge.Helen Allen, a lawyer in the special crime division of the CPS, said Gosling had been interviewed several times by police and an "extensive investigation" had been conducted into his claims."The police established that there was sufficient evidence to provide a realistic prospect of proving that Mr Gosling's confession was false and asked the CPS to consider whether he should be prosecuted for wasting police time, given the amount of work they had to carry out to establish what had happened," she said."After careful consideration of all the evidence I decided that Mr Gosling should be prosecuted for wasting police time and advised the police to obtain a summons to that effect."Speaking today after visiting a police station in Nottingham, Gosling said he was sorry if there had been any hurt caused to his lover, his lover's brother or his family."I'm sorry if the police think they wasted their time. It was a small item on a regional TV programme, Inside Out, to my people, with whom I have had an intimate relationship. It got out of hand that winter evening. I had had a week or two talking to people who had told me of the pacts they had had – some fulfilled with wives, lovers, husbands, who were dying in pain and some told me of pacts unfulfilled. I did not expect it to cause this fuss, I'm not joining any cause," he said."I know what some people say, that I said what I did for publicity to promote a book I'm writing. That is absolutely not true, I haven't finished the book yet. Some people say I did it to revive a dying career. I didn't. I said it out of my heart, out of my feeling for people who had told me their intimate private stories and it got out of hand and I'm sorry."A spokesman for Nottinghamshire police confirmed the veteran broadcaster had been summoned to appear in court on 14 September.Gosling had devised the 12-minute programme, which was described on the BBC's website as "Ray Gosling contemplates mortality – his own and everyone else's. Just how does he want to die and be remembered?" Walking through a graveyard as he delivered a piece to camera, Gosling said: "Maybe this is the time to share a secret that I've kept for quite a long time. I killed someone once," he said. "He'd been my lover and he got Aids.""In a hospital one hot afternoon, the doctor said, 'There's nothing we can do', and he was in terrible, terrible pain. I said to the doctor, 'Leave me just for a bit', and he went away. I picked up the pillow and smothered him until he was dead. The doctor came back and I said, 'He's gone'. Nothing more was ever said."Gosling, a freelance presenter of hundreds of radio and TV documentaries, said of his partner's family that "some know and some don't", adding: "It's best that way."He initially said he would refuse to divulge details of the man or of when and where the killing took place, "even under torture". However he later said he had told police the man's identity during questioning.