The fundamental principles underpinning any public inquiry are the search for the truth and, more importantly, responding to that truth in a just and reasoned manner. Reason dictates that the call from the home secretary for the suspension and ultimate sacking of the chief constable of Humberside (Blunkett moves to suspend chief constable, June 28) can only weaken further the structures that are required to facilitate good policing.Politically engineered policing is a dangerous path; it has the potential to destroy the very foundations on which community policing, localism and policing by consent rest. At this critical time, all parties named as contributing to the Soham tragedy need to consult together on how the Bichard report recommendations can be implemented to prevent further tragedies. Searching for a scapegoat will detract from the real issues and allow the recommend-ations to be forgotten.The response of the public, including the parents of Holly Wells, seems overwhelmingly to favour the retention of the chief constable. They want a sound strategy put into place by government to improve the management of intelligence on a national basis. The police need the support of the home secretary to ensure that intelligence systems are available for the purposes of effective operational policing and not a home secretary who is evading his responsibility. Culpability cannot be centred in a single individual. It is David Westwood's conscientiousness that has impelled him to give a personal undertaking to the parents of Holly and Jessica to rectify the "systemic and corporate" failings within the Humberside recording systems. This commitment has earned him the support of his police authority, the Association of Chief Police Officers, the parents of Holly Wells and members of the public, including his local community. We would like to record our unstinting support for chief constable Westwood to be given the opportunity to perform the duties that will bring about a resolution of this situation before it descends into political chaos. Dr Allyson MacVean Director John Grieve Centre for Policing and Community Safety  Michael Bichard's inquiry report highlights that decisions about individuals will only be as good as the information on which they are based. If significant information is missing, the risk analysis will be skewed and the resulting judgment flawed. The clearer guidance for frontline workers in all the relevant agencies, as to which information may be recorded, kept and shared without consent, will help to give confidence and reassurance to those making difficult decisions quickly. This often has to be done in a context of lawyers offering different interpretations as to whether human rights or data protection legislation should take precedence. In those circumstances the principle of the Children Act, that the welfare of the child is paramount, should always prevail. There is an implicit echo in this report of Laming's enjoiner to do the basic things well. Conscientiousness and efficiency are needed on the part of those recording information, as well as adequate systems and sufficient people to match the scale of the task across the country.This is a timely reminder of the threat posed by determined sexual predators and the importance of rigorous recruitment arrangements for every job which enables close contact with children. ADSS welcomes this short and effective review process and the plan to revisit progress against the recommendations in six months time will concentrate the necessary minds. Penny Thompson John Coughlan Children and families committee, Association of Directors of Social Services