A firefighter who tried to drive through a herd of cows, causing them to stampede and crush a farmer, has been given a suspended jail sentence.Julian Lawford was driving to a car crash in which a child was trapped when the fire truck was held up on a country road in Somerset by the dairy cows.Lawford, 49, a part-time firefighter who had followed his father and grandfather into the service, switched off his engine's blue flashing emergency lights but turned them back on after becoming impatient with the slow progress. The herd panicked as he tried to drive though it.Farmer Harold Lee, 75, died in hospital six days after the startled herd of 100 holstein friesians trampled him, leaving him with serious chest and head injuries.Lawford, who worked in the fire service for 32 years, had been on his way to help cut a seven-year-old boy from the wreckage of a car in August 2009, Bristol crown court was told.He was approached by Harold Lee's son Richard, 44, and asked not to spook the herd, which was on its way to the milking parlour at Robins farm in Burtle.Simon Morgan, prosecuting, said a heated exchange followed and Lawford told Richard Lee: "I hope your cows are worth more than a boy's life."Lawford then tried to "drive through the cows" causing them to panic and crush Harold Lee as he tried to calm them.Morgan said: "The risk of the beasts stampeding was obvious. It was obvious common sense. They started to panic as a direct consequence of the fire engine."Morgan told the court how a passer-by saw Lee lying in "pooling blood" after the cattle trampled him. "She saw the cattle in panic, climbing over one another in an attempt to get away from the fire engine. Harold Lee got off his quad bike and put his arms out wide to try and direct the cattle. He was then seen on the ground bleeding from a head wound. He had hoof marks all over him and blood pooling around him."Lawford was arrested and charged with manslaughter by gross negligence, which he denied. He was due to stand trial in December but minutes before the hearing admitted a lesser charge of causing death by dangerous driving.Richard Smith QC, defending, said Lawford had been trying to get to the trapped child as quickly as possible and "seconds cost lives"."This is a man whose family have given 100 years service to the fire brigade, his father and grandfather before him. The last thing that a man like him wants is to take a life. He has spent years saving lives."The effect on him privately has been immense and profound and that is a burden that he will have to bear."Lawford "adored" the fire service and had "genuine remorse for his error of judgement".Judge Roderick Evans sentenced Lawford to four months in prison, suspended for 12 months. He said: "The decision of trying to drive through the herd was a fatal error of judgment which has had a devastating effect on two different families, the Lee family and yours."After the hearing one firefighter, who would not be named, said he was concerned that the case might prompt part-time firefighters to drop out. "Why would they want to risk their liberty and future employment by driving fire engines on a call-out basis?"A spokesperson for the Devon and Somerset fire and rescue service said: "We will carefully consider all the observations made in court today by prosecution, defence and the judge to ensure any possible lessons are learnt."DSFRS are acutely aware of the need to ensure that a proper balance is struck by drivers between the need to drive safely when attending an emergency and the proper expectation that the service will attend the scene of any road traffic accident or other incident in a timely and effective manner."Lawford remains suspended from the service.