A middle-aged family man who, police say, was in the wrong place at the wrong time was attacked and beaten to death in an unprovoked attack by a gang of up to six youths near a university campus.David Woods, a 51-year-old father of six children, suffered serious head injuries after he was beaten by a teenage street gang and left to die on a pathway near the University of Central Lancashire in Preston on Friday evening during the apparently motiveless attack.Police are appealing to students who may have been in the area at the time of the attack to come forward if they witnessed anything which may be of use to the investigation. The gang is believed to have been involved in an altercation which could have involved two students from the university.Mr Woods was on a shopping errand when he was set upon by the gang close to his home. It is believed he was savagely kicked and punched during the incident, and he was pronounced dead at the scene by paramedics.Detective Superintendent Graham Gardner of Lancashire police, who is leading the murder inquiry, said: "This man suffered an unprovoked attack. It seems to have been a case of someone being in the wrong place at the wrong time. We know there were a number of people nearby and we are appealing for any of them to come forward. We also know there was an altercation earlier involving a group of young people with two men who might have been students. We would like these two men to contact us as well."Officers are checking CCTV footage of the area in an effort to trace gang members. The gang are thought to have been involved in two earlier skirmishes on Friday evening.Police are seeking to reassure the students who live and spend time in the area. "This is not, by and large, a rough area or an area where this happens on a daily basis," Mr Gardner said. "We are keen to offer reassurances to students."Two teenage youths were arrested on Saturday and a young man and young woman were also in custody yesterday. All four are being held at Preston police station and will be interviewed separately by detectives. They have not yet been charged with any offence.The incident happened on a pathway near the side of the 53 Degrees student club, between Fylde Road and Adelphi Street, at about 7.15pm on Friday. Anyone with information is urged to contact police.