The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday July 31 2008In the article below we said that Joey Barton had cost his club £5.8m, that the club was a plc, and that expensive assets were not just chucked away. In fact, Newcastle United is privately owned. Also, the prison from which Barton was released has not been "Strangeways" since 1994. We should have called it HM Prison Manchester. The latter has been corrected. It seems odd that Joey Barton has hung on to his £65,000-a-week job playing football for Newcastle United. On Monday Barton was released from HM Prison Manchester after half of a six-month sentence for assault: the former England midfielder was caught on camera repeatedly punching his victim in Liverpool city centre last New Year's Eve.You might think this would count as "gross misconduct" and justify the sack. You'd be wrong. While in practice most prisoners lose their jobs because they're unable to fulfil their duties, it does depend on the circumstances. If it doesn't affect your ability to work - as with Barton's convenient off-season banging-up - then even an assault conviction can fail to qualify as a sacking offence. Still, it's possible Newcastle could have argued that Barton, as a professional entertainer, has an additional duty both as a role model and to promote the club's good name. Plus, Barton is binge-drinking in the last-chance saloon: only this month he was given another four-month suspended sentence for an attack on a team-mate at his former club, Manchester City. He previously announced himself to the world by stubbing a lit cigar in a team-mate's eye. Newcastle haven't done this. In fact - vague talk of a pay cut aside - they've barely tried to sack Barton at all. In part this is because Barton cost £5.8m and Newcastle United is a plc: you don't just chuck expensive assets away. Mainly, however, it seems to have a lot to do with the fact that rival Premier League clubs have been sniffing around trying to snap up the ex-con midfielder on the cheap. Barton's crime was unpleasant enough. The fallout from his release tells us something equally grim about the industry in which he works.