Lawyers from the Home Office will meet this morning to finalise details of David Blunkett's court attempt to suspend Humberside's police chief, David Westwood, despite opposition from the father of one of the girls murdered in Soham.Kevin Wells, whose daughter Holly and her friend Jessica Chapman were murdered by Ian Huntley in August 2002, said it would be a "travesty" if the chief constable lost his job because his force mishandled intelligence about the killer. Last week's report on the case by Sir Michael Bichard found Mr Westwood had to take personal responsibility for Humberside's "systematic and corporate failings". Mr Blunkett said in a statement yesterday: "I took the decision to suspend Chief Constable Westwood knowing full well that it would not be welcomed by Mr and Mrs Wells. "However, I firmly believe that the home secretary's response to a report as serious as the Bichard inquiry must be driven by the findings of Sir Michael Bichard himself." Mr Wells, who described the chief constable as "fundamentally a good man", told the Mail on Sunday: "The inquiry into the murders has become a major political issue and we have found that shocking. We have always understood Mr Westwood to have our best interests at heart and to be willing to take the blame for troubles which pre-dated his promotion." Humberside police authority last week rejected Mr Blunkett's request to suspend Mr Westwood. Mr Blunkett will ask the high court to overturn the decision under powers introduced by the 2002 Police Reform Act. Once the police chief is suspended, Mr Blunkett must consult further with the police authority and will have to set up a new inquiry if he wants Mr Westwood to resign or retire. Meanwhile a former adviser to Tony Blair on policing matters said Mr Blunkett should take some of the blame for police failings surrounding the murders. Lord Mackenzie said Mr Blunkett's department must bear some responsibility for the shortcomings in police intelligence procedures. The former president of the Police Superintendents' Association told BBC Radio 4's The World This Weekend: "I think there is some responsibility here not just with the chief constable or with Humberside police. There is some responsibility with the Home Office as well. I don't think that taking one head resolves the problem." He said forces had been asking the Home Office for a nationwide police intelligence computer. "Some would blame the Home Office and say they haven't set up what the police service has been demanding for quite some time," he said.