Stephen Downing, the victim of Britain's longest-running miscarriage of justice, began the fight for massive compensation for his 27 years in prison after his murder conviction was quashed yesterday.Mr Downing, who was jailed in 1974 for the killing of typist Wendy Sewell, was found guilty on the basis of an "unreliable confession and unreliable forensic evidence", the court of appeal ruled yesterday. On the steps of the court in London, he said he had no ill-feeling for Derbyshire police, whose officers interrogated him for more than seven hours, shook him to keep him awake and took bets on whether he would confess. "I've got no qualms with them," he said. "They are a different force altogether. It's all in the past - let's forget it." Mr Downing was just 17 and had the reading age of an 11-year-old when he was arrested in 1973 on suspicion of bludgeoning Sewell to death with a pickaxe handle. He had raised the alarm after finding her as she lay dying in a cemetery in Bakewell, Derbyshire, where he worked as a gardener. Mr Downing, now 45, was released on bail last March and is expected to claim more than £2m in compensation. Legal sources said he could expect to claim £20,000 for each year in prison, with further claims for psychological damage and loss of earnings. "We will obviously shoot for a very large sum of money," one of his legal team said. "He was incredibly young when he went into prison." Yesterday's ruling was the culmination of years of campaigning by his parents, Ray and Juanita, and a determined investigation by a local newspaper editor, Don Hale. "I am very pleased with the way things have gone," he said yesterday. "We have got his conviction overturned. "I would have liked the judges to have gone a step further and say he is innocent. I think they could have been more positive on that and come out and said he could not have done it. "We want the case reopened. The real killer is still out there." It emerged at yesterday's hearing that pressure may have been put on at least one witness, a schoolgirl at the time, not to tell the appeal court what she saw. Mr Downing's counsel, Edward Fitzgerald QC, said the woman - who claims to have seen Sewell meeting a man in the cemetery on the day of her murder - would not attend "because she feels she is being harassed by certain individuals". There remains one shadow on Mr Downing's character; he may have sexually assaulted Sewell as she lay dying by touching her breasts and inserting a finger into her vagina. He now says he touched her breast to check her heartbeat and denies penetrating her. His counsel, Mr Fitzgerald, said: "I accept this is undoubtedly a very obnoxious aspect of this case." Deputy Chief Constable Bob Wood of Derbyshire police said police procedures had improved considerably since 1973. "Prisoners who have learning difficulties are supported by specially trained advisers or social workers who help them understand what is happening to them." A police spokeswoman added that careful consideration would be taken before any decision was made to reopen the case. But the criminal cases review commission, which referred Mr Downing's case to the court of appeal, said there was insufficient new evidence to reopen the inquiry. After a day-long hearing at the appeal court, during which the prosecution did not seek to uphold the conviction, the judges said the officers who interrogated Mr Downing were guilty of "substantial and significant breaches" of the rules on questioning of suspects. During the time he was interviewed he was never told he was under arrest and was denied access to a solicitor. Lord Justice Pill, sitting with Mrs Justice Hallett and Mr Justice Davis, also accepted fresh evidence from two forensic scientists who challenged the testimony of the prosecution's expert at the trial that the blood on Mr Downing's clothing could only be explained by his having killed the woman. The expert had discounted Mr Downing's claim that the victim, who was still alive when he found her, had shaken her blood-soaked hair, which had spattered his clothes. An alternative explanation - that the stains were caused by the woman exhaling blood - was never put to the expert or considered by him. Mr Downing was convicted at Nottingham crown court in February 1974 and sentenced to life. He could have been released by 1991 but was denied parole because of his insistence he was innocent. A year ago he was released on bail after the prosecution said it would not oppose the appeal. He returned to live with his parents and has worked as a cook in a Bakewell restaurant .