The detective responsible for pursuing the racist gang that murdered Stephen Lawrence raised hopes of fresh arrests yesterday after he hinted that his investigators were mining a seam of significant new information.Detective Assistant Commissioner John Grieve, head of Scotland Yard's race and violent crimes task force, revealed officers had received a call after an appeal on last week's Crimewatch UK programme which had been "very useful". Although Mr Grieve refused to go into details, he said the person who telephoned was "of great value and interest to us". In an unusual step, the breakthrough was made public and a statement released. The open approach underlines the Met's commitment to find a way of securing convictions in a case which Sir Paul Condon, the outgoing commissioner, said had brought the force to near "meltdown". Mr Grieve has been given resources to "explore all possible avenues and alternatives". But the Met cannot afford another failed investigation into the death of the 18-year-old student, stabbed in Eltham, south-east London, on April 22 1993. Three of the original suspects, Neil Acourt, Gary Dobson and Luke Knight, were cleared of his murder in 1996 when a private prosecution brought by Stephen's family failed. Proceedings against two others, David Norris and Jamie Acourt, were dropped at an early stage. Mr Grieve said: "There are still people out there who have information and who could still get in touch with us. Whatever anyone says it is still possible to re-visit these offences. I do not hold the view that it is impossible legally to prosecute people with events connected to the night of Stephen's death and the surrounding circumstances." Neil Acourt, Dobson and Knight cannot be prosecuted again for Stephen's murder. However, it might be possible to bring charges against several individuals in relation to Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen the night he died. Mr Brooks fled from the white gang which killed Stephen. He returned to the scene and watched helplessly as his close friend died from his wounds. Mr Brooks's solicitor, Vicky Guedalla, said charges relating to Duwayne could prove the Met's best strategy. She said Duwayne had escaped a "potentially murderous attack". "This would be more of a runner than a murder charge as it is not contaminated by the failure of the private prosecution. Our complaint throughout has been that [Mr Brooks] was stereotyped from the off. And that prevented anyone perceiving him as a surviving victim." Ms Guedalla said it was also possible that a sixth person was part of the gang that stabbed Stephen. Sir William Macpherson's report into the failed murder inquiry concluded that Mr Brooks "was a primary victim of the racist attack. He is also the victim of all that has followed, including the conduct of the case and the treatment of himself as a witness and not as a victim."