The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday December 2 2004 In the article below we said that Trupti Patel had been convicted of killing her children and cleared on appeal when, in fact, she was found not guilty of the charges at Reading crown court in June 2003.  The head of the public watchdog which investigates alleged miscarriages of justice called yesterday for a radical overhaul of the rules governing expert testimony. Professor Graham Zellick, chairman of the Criminal Cases Review Commission, said new regulations would enable the courts to better assess the credibility of expert witnesses. Areas of expertise should be clearly defined and experts registered, judges should be able to throw out expert evidence they considered unreliable, it should be made clear to juries to what degree such testimony is a matter of opinion rather than undisputed fact, and different views should be offered where appropriate, he said. Mr Zellick, who launched the CCRC annual report in London yesterday, said the problems of expert testimony were thrown into sharp relief by the case of Angela Cannings, convicted of killing two of her babies on the evidence of the paediatrician Sir Roy Meadows, but his theories were discredited in January when the court of appeal over turned her conviction. Sally Clark and Trupti Patel, two other mothers convicted of killing their children on Sir Roy's testimony, were also subsequently cleared on appeal. The attorney general, Lord Goldsmith, reviewed 298 similar cases where parents were convicted of killing a child, and identified 28 which he thought merited re-investigation. The CCRC is examining six of these cases, including that of Donna Anthony, jailed for life six years ago for the murders of her two children, aged 11 months and four months. The commission was already dealing with another five cases, involving infant death or serious harm, and a 12th case is to go straight to the appeal court. Mr Zellick said: "We need to examine the whole law of admissibility of expert witnesses from first principles. The time has come to develop more stringent rules. We need very clear rules as to what constitutes an expert area, who the practitioners are and the extent to which they are allowed to express opinions. Where expert evidence on behalf of the crown isn't effectively offset by defence evidence, that needs to be resolved." Technological advances had opened up new fields, like ear prints and facial mapping, the evidential value of which was sometimes not easy to measure. Also, some so-called experts, said Mr Zellick, were "highly dubious" and "appear to be making it up as they go along. "There ought to be some quite straightforward legal framework which would allow the judge to say 'get out of my court, don't come in here with this nonsense'." But any regulations would have to go beyond establishing a register of expert areas and recognised experts. "After all, you could not have an expert more eminent or distinguished than Professor Sir Roy Meadows," said Mr Zellick. Mr Zellick said some people could make a good living from appearing as expert witnesses, and the more definitively their testimony supported the case, the more likely lawyers were to call on them again. He stopped short of calling for a cap on fees, but said expert witnesses must be reminded of their ethical responsibilities, and juries needed to be aware that most fields of knowledge were open to some doubt and subjective interpretation.