A week has passed since he sped back from Tuscany, and David Cameron is still not having the happiest of crises. His visits to Birmingham, Wolverhampton and Salford have been woefully quickfire affairs, mostly enacted behind closed doors. It seems strange that though he has been to Croydon, Tottenham, Hackney and Peckham have yet to be graced by his presence. The government's quixotic decision to pick a fight with the police has played badly with the public, polls show. To the average Joe, Cameron surely looks like a man caught on the hop, reprising his old tunes and desperately writing unconvincing new ones – with the noise surrounding Bill Bratton's quest to become chief commissioner of the Met forming a particularly bamboozling detail.Today Cameron made the "social fightback" speech intended to seize the agenda via claims of a "slow-motion moral collapse". His chosen location: a youth centre in his well-heeled Oxfordshire constituency. Whose idea was that? Perhaps the aim was to make an appeal to Britain's better nature from a middle English cradle of law-abiding stability. Maybe Cameron thought the hip-hop mural behind him would suffice. It didn't, and the clumsy choreography made things worse. For Ed Miliband's appearance at his old school, the audience was made up of young people and community activists from places affected by the riots, who asked questions immediately after his speech; Cameron had to be reminded to engage with the assembled youth by the Guardian's Michael White. On this evidence, he's rather losing his touch.And the content? There is no point in people like me having a pop at, say, John Redwood for his failure to recognise the importance of inequality. But Cameron was meant to be slightly different. And if the "progressive" persona he once affected had been transposed to today, who knows what would have happened?Even while making the case for personal responsibility he would have acknowledged the causal links that run between deprivation, and crime, disorder and family dysfunction. He might have highlighted the lines to be drawn between all those images of people stealing whatever they could grab, and what he once called "insatiable consumption and materialism". There is masses of this stuff in the archives: as late as November 2009 he was paying tribute to Richard Wilkinson and Kate Pickett's The Spirit Level, and saying things like this: "There's a massive difference between a system that allows fair reward for talent, effort and enterprise, and a system that keeps millions of people at the bottom locked out of the success enjoyed by the mainstream." He was talking about modern Britain. What happened?Today he sounded cold, cynical, and occasionally quite odd. How did he end up making no reference to youth unemployment but decrying the Human Rights Act and that hoary old Aunt Sally, health and safety culture? Given that the leader of the opposition ties together looting, City chicanery, MPs' expenses and phone hacking partly because he knows it's a message that resonates, why did Cameron confine any material on that idea to a one-sentence afterthought?Too much of what he said sounded like a rehashed version of the kind of stuff the blessed Margaret uttered back in the 1980s, tangled up with the modern small-statism that runs from the shrill aspects of the press into the rightwing blogosphere. If a moment like this demands a voice that might unify a country still reeling from last week's events, it is probably best not to sound the kind of notes beloved of Melanie Phillips.And even on this score Cameron was not consistent. When it comes to families, more government is apparently the new idea: "We've got to be less sensitive to the charge that this is about interfering or nannying," he said. But on education, the state should apparently get out of the way and leave things to small urban platoons headed by the likes of, say, Toby Young. Such is the contradiction that cuts straight to the confused heart of the prime minister's politics. All too often, they make no sense – which is maybe what happens when apparent beliefs are actually mere flags of convenience. "Within the lifetime of this parliament we will turn around the lives of the 120,000 most troubled families in the country," he said, though much of the surrounding Tory noise suggests unlikely methods of doing so: evicting them from their homes and cutting their benefits?And so to one of the more baffling no-shows: a public inquiry. There is no point in mincing words: it is insane that after events of such horror and gravity the prime minister would not commit to one – instead pushing a fuzzy across-the-board policy review "to mend our broken society". Thirty years ago William Whitelaw commissioned the Scarman inquiry two days after the riots of April 1981 had ended. Miliband is talking about how to build something that will be more open and ambitious than the standard Whitehall talk-in, and threatening to do it himself.The ghosts of 30 years ago are all around us. Over the weekend, I read an out-of-print paperback titled Uprising!, co-authored by my Guardian colleague Martin Kettle. What hit me was that even if most of the recent disturbances have been very different from the riots back then, their respective aftermaths are remarkably similar.Then, as now, there was a spasm of over-the-top sentencing and political rhetoric accompanied by a rising sense that something in society was very wrong, which too many people at the top failed to grasp. On 8 July, the week after one of two disturbances in Toxteth, Margaret Thatcher appeared in a party political broadcast and displayed her usual ice-cold obstinacy, much to the annoyance of the Times."She failed to raise the tone of her remarks to the level of events," it said. "Not for the first time, she was unable to strike the right note when a broad sense of social understanding was required." Give or take the pronouns, that verdict might just as well have been written about what we heard yesterday.