Janie is a pretty, petite 20 year old, with sparkling eyes, tight jeans and a pierced belly-button proudly on show. She likes clubbing until dawn. But she has not been out much in recent months. Instead she stays indoors in her dusty Albanian town, cut off from the sea and other cities by ranks of uninhabited, rugged mountains. As the strip light flickers in her family's poky living room, she lights up endless cigarettes and bubbles away in English to me, with a thick cockney accent, in front of her sunken-faced, weary mother."I can't go out. No way," she tells me, as her sisters press glasses of raki on their English visitor. "People stare at you. They can tell I've been abroad. They know what I've done." Since she was deported from Britain earlier this year without any papers, Janie (that's what she likes to be called) has not even managed to tell her family that she was forced to be a prostitute. "They would be too ashamed. They would have to throw me out," she tells me, in the assurance that her mother and sisters, squeezed next to us on a sagging sofa, cannot understand a word she's saying. They prefer to think she got lucky earning £30 a day as a waitress in a London cafe, a job she also did after escaping her pimps. Her family are proud. She is the closest they have ever come to success. Janie is just one of hundreds of confused, traumatised Albanian girls trickling back to their jobless, unforgiving country after having been forced to service hundreds of men in western European cities before eventually being deported. Later, her hands tremble and her eyes water as she tells me, away from the gazing family eyes and helped by a glass of Albanian red wine, what really happened. At 15, Janie, one of seven whose father had been shot dead by a neighbour in a row over a patch of land, had moved with her mother into her older sister's house. But her sister's husband, strained by the extra mouths to feed, began beating the young girl. Neighbours could see the bruises and often she was so battered she could not make it to school. A failed attempt to take an overdose only increased her brother-in-law's rage. Then one day a neighbour came to her rescue, declaring he had fallen in love with her and wanted to help. He paid for a "taxi" which smuggled them across the border to Greece, where he promised her they would find work and a better life. "He did say we would get married. But when we got to Greece, he stopped saying that," she says. "We got false ID papers and caught the ferry to Italy. He paid for everything. I loved him." In Italy, Janie's "boyfriend" - whom she refuses to name for fear he may one day track her down - hooked up with some friends in a flat in Turin. They began beating the terrified teenager until she agreed to work the streets. She was locked in the flat, unable to reach a phone and threatened with death if she did not hand over her earnings each day. "I kept saying to them I want to go back to my mum. But they just wanted to make me work. I was so afraid. I didn't want to survive no more," she says. "I just wanted to die." Business was slack and the pimps were twitchy as they heard of increasingly effective police raids. "We have to move to England. It's easier there," her "boyfriend" said one day. "There are saunas and massage parlours and the clients have more money." Janie was bundled into a car that drove through the night to another prison-flat in Brussels. There, she says, her "boyfriend" beat her so hard that police heard her screams, found the pair and arrested the pimp. Janie was given lodgings as an asylum seeker but, she says, she was afraid to go home for fear her parents would disown her. Instead, she headed to Britain, hidden, unbeknown to the driver, with 15 others in the back of a lorry. She was picked up by police soon after her ferry landed and social services provided her with lodgings while her status was assessed. As she worked in a cafe, "Albanian boys kept hanging around," she says, eventually enticing her back to their flat. "The Albanian boys put me in a house in Paddington," she says, a long pause between each sentence. "It was old. The customers were old. There were three of us. We had to wear big white T-shirts. That's all. Like a nurse's uniform." For around three months, Janie was made to work in the grimy Paddington brothel, slogging through up to 16 hours of sex each day, as the commuters rushed in and out of work only streets away. Customers paid £30 to £50 per half hour, "depending on what they wanted". They all used condoms, she says, convinced she must be riddled with diseases. "One night I had 26 customers," she says, staring at the table cloth. "I'd like to have sex one day with someone I love. But I don't think I'll ever do it without thinking of all those men." After work, the pimps would rape her one by one, tie her down and use her naked belly to snort cocaine. One day another of the girls, who cried too much and put her customers off, had the fingers of one hand crushed in a door and her hair shaved off as punishment. "We had no one to talk to. I had nowhere I could go. No friends. I had no one I could trust," she says. Janie was stopped several times when night patrols found her being beaten on the streets but to protect the pimps who had threatened to kill her, she never admitted she was being forced into prostitution. She eventually escaped after her brothel was raided by police and she faded for a while into the capital's mass of illegal workers, serving in a London cafe. She was deported earlier this year. On arrival in Albania, Janie told her whole story, for the first time, to the police in her home town. She says she does not know what has become of her "boyfriend" and lives in fear that he may return to find her. As far as she knows, her London pimps are still enslaving other girls. "I feel guilty," she says, back in her home town. "I was tempted when I was 15. I needed someone to look after me. But I should have stayed and let my brother-in-law keep beating me. I did not know it could get worse than that." Janie is a classic case of a generation of Albania's poorest, least educated girls who make ripe pickings for traffickers, milking Europe's booming sex industry as hard as they can. The profits from sex slaves are higher and the risks infinitely lower than trafficking drugs or weapons. The US government estimates 700,000 people are being trafficked for exploitation around the world each year. And as Italy has successfully clamped down on the flow of rubber dinghies and speedboats across the Adriatic, Albanian pimps have headed north, targeting Britain and other northern European countries. "The Italian route has been interrupted. Dozens of criminal gangs have moved to the UK, Holland, Sweden and Norway," says Avni Jasharllari, who heads the Albanian government's anti-trafficking unit, which was created two years ago. "We know of 330 Albanian criminals hiding in Britain now. They feel freer to carry out their activities there." Cooperation between Albanian and British police is beginning but messages take months to be conveyed over faulty phone lines and non-existent faxes. Albanian police feel their efforts to lead a "war on trafficking" are being frustrated because in Britain, they say, "the sex industry is being ignored". While London's clubs and vice squad is tackling trafficking cases in London, elsewhere in Britain the problem is little understood. Albanian pimps are "dominating the European arena" of trafficking in human beings, according to the International Organisation for Migration (IOM), in part because they work in small, family-like groups and use emotional bonds to keep girls from running away. Trafficked girls, mostly from eastern Europe, West Africa and Asia, are now being found from Naples to Nottingham and over 65% of those enticed away from Albania are under 18. The Home Office counted 1,420 cases in 1998, but experts in the field warn this is the "tip of the iceberg", since the business is thriving and the vast majority of enslaved girls are too terrified to come forward. Most European countries as yet have no legislation against this modern form of slavery. In Britain, a sexual offences bill is currently in parliament and due to be passed before the end of the year, meaning human traffickers will face a sentence of up to 14 years for trading in humans for sexual exploitation. Meanwhile, Albania is struggling to cope with the flow of girls who have been chewed up and spat out of the trafficking industry. They are posted home when there are empty seats on charter flights, but when they arrive, they do not find their families waiting at the airport with open arms. Prostitution is one of the worst crimes a woman can commit in this Muslim country the size of Wales. The 3.1 million inhabitants seem to know each other and in rural areas, under ancient social codes, enemy blood is required to repair a family's damaged honour.Returning to a normal life for an ex-prostitute is almost impossible. In the lawless, destitute north of the country, aid agencies teach mothers how to protect their daughters from lurking traffickers, while others provide shelter for women who are spat upon in public and refused a home or a job because of their shameful past. Many end up moving to a different town, some escape again to another country and the most vulnerable fall back into the hands of their pimps. "Public opinion is the worst thing for these girls," says Krenar Kasi, whose anti-trafficking squad in the central Albanian town of Berat has files on more than 200 girls returning from sex slavery in Europe in the past 18 months. "Most of them end up leaving. They settle in another town where no one knows them. Or they escape abroad again. That's the only way they they can find what they are missing here - normality." Albanian police coax increasing numbers of returning girls into naming their pimps, keeping them in protective custody initially and handing them to the IOM and other support services in subsequent months. Guards ward off pimps who hover around the small IOM shelter for ex-prostitutes in Tirana, hoping to persuade or terrify their ex-slaves into withdrawing their statements. "One girl denounced her pimps and we had to escort her to several different towns with bodyguards in a car with tinted windows," says Spartak Guma, head of the Tirana anti-trafficking police. "When she finally returned to her home town of Fier, there was a huge sign reading 'prostitute' on the front of her house." While trafficking is a plague in neighbouring Moldova, Romania and Bulgaria, Albania is in a different league. In the aftermath of half a century of Stalinist isolation, criminals have thrived and police are only now beginning to catch up with them. Almost half of the total number of victims identified in the region are Albanian, according to a joint report published this July by the IOM and the International Catholic Migration Commission. Since January 2000, 2,241 have been counted and experts suspect the true figure to be several times higher. Janie is worldly wise now, in some ways - having learned to deal with all kinds of men - but she is also an interrupted child who chatters excitedly about her dreams of becoming a model or a soap opera star when she returns to the UK. "England is my home now, you know" she says, spending days queuing for an elusive visa at the British consulate in Tirana. "One minute after I got back here I was bored. I miss EastEnders. It takes me hours to get to sleep at night. And then I dream of chicken pie and chips."