No amount of Suffolk sunshine could prevent the long shadow being cast over Latitude festival this weekend: a reported gang rape on Thursday and another unrelated rape allegation on Friday meant that the five-year-old festival's carefully cultivated image as a family-friendly idyll has been seriously jeopardised.The festival felt different to the one I went to in 2007. Atmosphere is, of course, a hard thing to quantify – or indeed regulate – but this year's proceedings seemed to have an unexpected stag-weekend vibe. The big groups of shirtless lads jostling past the babystrollers were a bit of a shock after the laid-back, genteel mood of three years ago.More quantifiable though, were the crowds: in its first year, Latitude attracted 6,000 people but this year the capacity was 35,000 – up 5,000 on last year. Women I spoke to today who were at the festival also felt this year was rowdier and rougher. Beth, a 24-year-old musician, said: "It gets dangerous when they are so many people crammed into one small space all wanting to have fun. It felt very laddy at certain points. After we heard that there was a rape – and it would have been good to hear something officially – after that I stopped wandering off on my own."Sarah, a theatre producer, said: "I never felt threatened in any way but it probably helped being in a large mixed group. There were about 10 of us camping together so we felt very safe, but if it had been just me and a girlfriend sharing a tent then I probably wouldn't want to go to the loo on my own in the middle of the night. Obviously, it's a terrifying thing to hear but I'd be saddened if this puts people off attending what is otherwise a great weekend."And the festival is a great weekend. On bands alone, the lineup this year was the best yet, with Belle and Sebastian's appearance a particular coup. Nor is Latitude short of winsome details; its multicoloured sheep have become something of a trademark. But much more important, and boring, things such as better lighting and security need to be prioritised over the decorative touches. Because while an unpleasantly laddish atmosphere isn't something the organisers can do anything about, unlit swathes of parkland definitely are. When I tried to get a cab off the site late on Friday night, I was directed to a completely unlit field that was so dark it was impossible to see how many people were in it. I felt grateful that I was with two male friends, rather than on my own, and simultaneously furious to be having that thought.The whole point of festivals is the joy of people experiencing music together. They should really be the last place that women worry about feeling safe. It will be miserable if this poetry- and theatre-filled event, which people like to call "the posh Glastonbury", has become somewhere that women can't walk on their own at night.