A drama documentary on the story of the moors murders is being made more than 40 years after the serial killings shocked Britain, ITV announced yesterday. The programme makers of the factual drama spent two years intensively researching, talking to detectives who worked on the case, and relatives of the five murdered children, and interviewing Myra Hindley's brother-in-law, a key witness in her trial. Granada, which has made dramas about Bloody Sunday, the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence, and the Hillsborough disaster, assured relatives of the victims that See No Evil: The Story of the Moors Murders would be sober and unsensational. It will be broadcast next year to mark the 40th anniversary of the trial of Hindley and her partner, Ian Brady, at Chester assizes where they were sentenced to life imprisonment in 1966, a few months after the death penalty was abolished. Brady was a quiet, brooding clerk who admired the Nazis and was heavily influenced by the writings of Nietzche and the Marquis de Sade. In 1961 his Manchester firm, Millwards Merchandisers, recruited Hindley as a secretary. She had a crush on him for a year before he responded and they became lovers. Hindley finally confessed to her crimes in 1986 and tried to help police find the missing bodies. Pauline Reade's remains were discovered on Saddleworth moor in the Pennines. Successive home secretaries said that Hindley should never be released and she died in November 2002 after a long illness. ITV said that the victims' families had given their support to the drama. The producers said they had been unable to trace any of the family of the victim Edward Evans, who was 17 when he died in 1965. They believe he may not have any living relatives. Filming will begin in Manchester later in the year, and the programme promises to throw light on aspects of the story of the Moors murders and how the child killers were brought to justice. The drama's writer, Neil McKay, who was the author of The Hunt for the Yorkshire Ripper, said: "The drama provides a sober, unsensational account of the most notorious crimes of the last century. It tells the extraordinary story of how Ian Brady and Myra Hindley were brought to justice. The focus is not only on their crimes, but also on the effect ... on the families of their victims and Hindley's sister, Maureen. The response from the families of the victims to the project has been enormously encouraging and we hope the film will do them justice." The attacks began in July 1963 when Pauline, 16, was killed at a remote location on Saddleworth moor after being lured into Hindley's car as she walked along a street in Manchester. The murders continued for more than two years until the pair were captured. The deaths finally came to an end when David Smith, Hindley's brother-in-law, witnessed the murder of Evans and ran to the police with his wife, Maureen. Brady is serving his sentence at the high-security Ashworth hospital, where he is being fed against his will after he went on hunger strike. A court bid to prevent the authorities feeding him by force failed. ITV said relatives of the victims were fully consulted by the production team to ensure their stories had been accurately portrayed in the drama documentary. Danny Kilbride, the brother of John Kilbride, who was murdered aged 12 in November 1963 after he was picked up at a market, said: "I have gone through the script with the producer and it seems accurate. I'm pleased it's being produced locally and I'd rather it was made in my lifetime so I can help as much as I can to ... make it as true to life. These events shouldn't be forgotten. Every time a child goes missing, it all comes rushing back." Winnie Johnson, mother of Keith Bennett, 12, who was taken by the couple as he made his way to his grandmother's house in June 1964, and whose body has not been found, said: "All I want in life now is to keep the story in the public eye and keep the case opened until Keith is returned to me." Alan West, the stepfather of Lesley Ann Downey, the 10-year-old who was murdered on Boxing Day 1964 after Hindley recorded the child pleading for her life, said: "People have got to know what happened. The younger generation might not know anything about it - but should do. It's part of our history and it's important to me to keep the memory of Lesley Ann alive." His wife, Ann, died of cancer six years ago. She had to identify her daughter's voice on a tape as she screamed and begged for her life. She said those screams stayed with her for the rest of her life.