Police watchdogs have criticised officers who failed to heed warnings about a man who later murdered his pregnant girlfriend.Hayley Richards, 23, made a 999 call about her boyfriend, Hugo Quintas, a factory worker, after he tried to strangle her at her flat in Trowbridge, Wiltshire, in June last year. Six days after this assault, Quintas returned to her flat, slit her throat with a craft knife and left her to die.Quintas flew to his native Portugal the day after the killing, and was arrested in Spain. Last month he received a life sentence for the murder after the jury rejected an earlier plea of guilty to manslaughter. The waitress had been going out with him for 10 months and was two months' pregnant with his child. "It is clear from the evidence that she must have suffered dreadfully before she died," said Mr Justice Owen.When Ms Richards called Wiltshire police following the earlier attack, she told them she was "petrified" of Quintas and that he would "go mad" if he found out she had reported him.The Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPPC) said that "institutional failures" led to the police failing to arrest Quintas before the killing, despite having two opportunities to do so.Police could have arrested Quintas on June 7, when Ms Richards called to say he was in the Wetherspoons pub in Trowbridge. The IPCC found his risk had been assessed as "low" and police managers were unwilling to divert officers who were dealing with a distressed dog in a car and a driver suspected to be under the influence of drugs. When police eventually arrived at the pub, Quintas had gone.The commission also heard that, nine hours before Ms Richards' murder, a police officer had stopped Quintas in his car because of a defective taillight and ordered him to provide documentation. Despite still being wanted over the attack on Ms Richards a few days earlier, he was issued with a ticket and allowed to drive away.An IPPC investigating officer, Richard Reynolds, wrote that an early arrest might have led to Quintas being in custody before he had a chance to murder Ms Richards. "An early arrest could well have led to an actual-bodily-harm charge and thus the consideration of bail," he wrote."Bail conditions could have restricted Quintas's freedom to go to Hayley's home or the street outside it, and a condition breach could itself [have] prompt[ed] a further arrest and a court appearance to account for it."Quintas originally claimed that he had accidentally killed Ms Richards during a fight after she lunged at him with a knife.But he later admitted that he had "lost it" after she admitted to him that she had slept with another man.The IPCC report ruled that the investigation was "poor" and upheld two out of seven complaints against Wiltshire police, with one further complaint partially upheld. One police sergeant and one civilian member of the force are said to be facing disciplinary action.