The government was under fire yesterday as figures showed that 61 violent crimes, including murder and rape, were committed last year by former prisoners under supervision in the community. Experts said that the true number of offences was probably closer to 250, but Home Office statistics left out crucial information.Eleven serious offences, including manslaughter, kidnap and arson with intent to endanger life, were committed in England and Wales by offenders freed from jail but supposedly subject to the most rigorous level of monitoring by police, probation officers, social services and other agencies. One case was the murder of the London financier John Monckton, stabbed to death in the doorway of his home by Damien Hanson and Elliott White, who were meant to be under the supervision of the probation service.Offenders in the medium risk bracket carried out another 50 serious crimes. But there were no details from the Multi-Agency Public Protection Arrangements (Mappa) of the number of serious offences committed by those classed as low risk.Harry Fletcher, assistant general secretary of the probation service union Napo, said: "The vast majority of serious further offences are actually committed by offenders in the lowest tier. About 250 people in total are convicted of a further serious offence each year, although that is not included in these statistics. While Mappa are working well, there is an urgent need to review resources as we clearly need hundreds of additional experienced probation and police officers to improve monitoring of offenders on that lowest tier."Overall, 1,540 offenders breached the terms of their licences, up 18% year on year, while 104 breached an order, up from 73 the previous year. The number of registered sex offenders accused of committing more crimes rose 30% last year. Almost 1,300 people already on the register were charged or cautioned for new offences, compared with 993 the year before. The overall number of registered sex offenders rose more than 3% to just under 30,000.David Davis, the shadow home secretary, said: "This is yet more evidence of the government's failure to monitor and control dangerous offenders who are placed in our communities once released from prison. It also raises serious questions about the government's assessment of offenders for release in the first place."The Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, Nick Clegg, said: "Historically unprecedented levels of reoffending for all crimes are fast becoming the hallmark of this government. When reoffending is also rife among those who pose the most serious threat to the public, then government agencies must be held accountable."But he added that as the reoffending level was higher for those under less supervision, the extension of public protection measures should be considered.The Home Office stressed that the level of serious crime represented a reoffending rate of less than 1% of the tens of thousands of former prisoners being monitored. John Reid, the home secretary, recently announced a package of measures to tackle the problem.The Home Office minister Gerry Sutcliffe said yesterday: "Protecting the public is at the heart of the government's priorities, and ensuring the effective management of the most dangerous offenders is a key part of our agenda. Whilst we can never eliminate risk entirely, we are all entitled to expect that everything that can be done is being done to prevent these offenders from reoffending."Mappa was responsible for monitoring 47,653 violent and sexual offenders in the community in England and Wales at the start of this year, up 7% on the previous 12 months. Of this total, 12,505 were classified as at high or very high risk of causing serious harm, an 11% rise on the previous year.The so-called "critical few", who are subject to the most intensive supervision - and, in a few cases, fairly constant police surveillance - fell from 1,478 to 1,278.