The government's recent launch of police.uk saw a phenomenal public reaction. Within hours of going live, millions of users had attempted to gain access to maps permitting street-level scrutiny of crime incidents across the UK. Dogged by "technical problems", the site was reported by many to have failed in the face of public interest. Although the servers now seem much more capable of dealing with ongoing demand, we couldn't help but wonder if we could offer people some alternative ways to compare and contrast crime levels around the country.Last year, Doug McCune's depiction of San Francisco crime levels as elevation won many fans in the visualisation community. We'd been looking for a chance to collaborate for a while. As soon as we received word of the police making their underlying data available, we got in touch and asked if he'd like to help us build a tool to enable folks to compare crime levels between two locations at once. He came back with the suggestion that we make use of the software he develops in his day job - a product that enables the exploration of large quantities of geo-data in a variety of ways. Having merged the data into a single source, the benefits of using SpatialKey swiftly emerged. Calculating which incidents to show for a particular location when there are over half a million crimes recorded is a daunting task. Once we had the data in the system, we talked through the different tools we could create using their pre-built components. In the end, the lure of contrasting one area with another proved strongest. We took some advice from the graphics team about how to present two areas side by side and put together what I hope will prove a pretty handy tool in less than five days.It also you to search by postcode and navigate your way around the country. This is just the first of the things our data team plans to do with this data - watch this space.You can get the data from our earlier post here.What can you do with it?Download the data• Download the full spreadsheet and find out the worst streetsMore dataData journalism and data visualisations from the GuardianWorld government data• Search the world's government data with our gatewayDevelopment and aid data• Search the world's global development data with our gatewayCan you do something with this data?• Flickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group• Contact us at data@guardian.co.uk• Get the A-Z of data• More at the Datastore directory• Follow us on Twitter• Like us on Facebook