Louise Casey, the coordinator of the government's Respect Unit, one might think, is not the kind of person to hug a hoodie. As Britain's most unconventional civil servant, she has - with the unstinting support of the prime minister and now the home secretary, John Reid - constructed a new arsenal of civil legal weaponry aimed at confronting antisocial behaviour.After much prevarication, local councils have overcome their institutional lethargy and are picking up her armoury with a vengeance. Opposition parties, faced with the popularity of the drive, have dropped their liberal squeamishness.Asbo (antisocial behaviour order) now features in dictionaries, on the street and on EastEnders, an event Casey says almost led her to fall off her sofa in a state of delirium. She has no sympathy for hoodies. "Nobody knows how much youth activities are out there but the minute we see young people on the street, we think it is because they are bored and all the Guardian readers, including me, say there must be more for young people to do. I have got nothing against youth centres as long as people go to them."Casey is heading upstream to what she regards as the source of disorder: the family and, specifically, parenting. It is perilous territory, she admits. "It is this huge thing that everyone thinks they cannot touch because it is about the family and the nanny state," she says.On a visit to one of the new breed of family intervention centres in Manchester, Casey explains her thinking. "Every time someone asked [former US president Bill] Clinton what his campaign was about, he used the expression: 'It's the economy, stupid.' Well, I think: 'It's the parenting, stupid.' Many people think Respect is all about Asbos, but for me it is about a Trojan horse so that we can deal with a lot of other things such as child poverty, repeat homelessness, repeat offending and under-attainment in schools. It will score on so many doors for the government."She is now determined to use television, government sponsored parenting classes (sometimes compulsory ones) and 50 high-intensity family intervention centres, like the one we are visiting in Manchester, to create a cultural change in Britain and the way we parent.But before describing the solution, Casey explains the problem. After five years in the interface between tough estates, the police, the criminal justice system, social workers and educationalists, she has a frustration. She argues that "institutionally, we have lost the ability to be judgmental somehow, because we worry that we are going to be seen as nasty to poor people". She then wonders at what has happened. "The biggest reason teachers exit teaching is bad behaviour, according to the National Union of Teachers. Yet somehow we all dance around [the issue of] bad behaviour."She makes the same point about the police: "Sometimes we end up saying we have to give the police powers to disperse groups of kids because without those powers, the police don't feel they can disperse the youths. Well, actually, I think they should and can."As a result of this cultural reluctance, she admits that the government has had to almost over-formalise and criminalise bad behaviour. She recalls being ridiculed by the Daily Mail for arguing that the police should disperse children after 9pm. "Have we lost our minds here? In all of this noise about civil liberties, back in the real world I inhabit - the really tough housing estates - I would have some big banner up saying: 'Do you know where your child is at 10 o'clock at night, and if you don't, why don't you?' Even 13- and 14-year-olds have got to go to school the next day. Ask children what their bedtime should be - they are far stricter than any adult is going to be."This leads her on to her parenting. "We all seem to have lost the ability to do something when Johnny is out of control. We have gone from the point of discipline [that] was [about] beating children - which was wrong and did not work - to a point where it is a free-for-all. We give so many choices to children nowadays. It's an over-choice world, when many of the children I have met over the years are desperate for structure, boundaries and for someone to say 'no'. And they keep pushing and pushing it, and poverty is not an excuse for any of that."We are where we are. The church is not there, and there are no extended families, role models and teachers don't do discipline as well as they used to."So what does government do, if anything, in such a vacuum? She is unequivocal that the state can have a role in the family, since for some parents - both middle class and deprived poor - parenting is either a mystery or beyond them. She explains that the government has been working with a group of experts to assemble standard-format parent classes, and will soon start integrating parenting classes in the handout of Asbos.In the spate of the recent successful parenting TV programmes, she thinks the media and the government have stumbled on a demand for help. The Respect Unit has commissioned researchers to monitor the impact of the TV courses. In preparing the government's own parenting classes, it is drawing on a consortium of international experts and using the model set up by US parenting expert Carolyn Webster Stratton.She argues: "Jamie Oliver rightly landed on school meals and said 'We are feeding children such bad food that they cannot sit down in the classroom', and I think the millions watching TV about parenting are saying the same thing to government. We know that these parenting courses are needed and wanted and the evidence we got from last year [on the impact of these programmes] shows that they work."Money is now being gathered, mainly from the Department for Education and Skills (DfES), to fund parenting classes. Casey is open that some parents - with children on the edge - may have to be forced on to the courses as part of parenting orders, adding that she would like it to be easier to secure such orders. "From January, we will give local authorities the ability to identify other agencies that can direct parents on to acceptable behaviour contracts and orders."At present, you can only get a parenting order if the child is truanting or you end up in a youth court for either a criminal conviction or an Asbo. Local authorities should be able to put people on to parenting orders much earlier - it could be social services, or children's services."I want anyone coming into the world of antisocial behaviour to be considered for a parenting contract, order or course. The idea that we in the Respect Unit love Asbos is wrong. The truth is that by the time a child makes it to court and the Youth Justice Board is involved, it is all a bit late. We need to get in earlier."The next expanding string in the bow are family intervention centres in 50 areas. Some will be 24-hour surveillance, such as in Manchester, dealing with drug addicted mothers unable to cook a meal or who simply can't get up in the morning. But one woman we met had children by four different partners and was being coerced on to a parenting course so she could learn the basics of controlling her children. Casey stresses: "These schemes are not [like] supported housing, this is challenging people's [actual] behaviour."Casey has a disregard for multi-agency working, arguing that some of the worst offenders can end up having as many as 13 different agencies supposedly counselling them. "These people need diary managers just to keep up with the agencies. Multi-agency can be code for keeping an eye out, and hoping that nothing happens. We have lost the ability to sort it out. We have lost our ability to be judgmental."She insists this new interest in parenting is not a sign that the Respect concept has gone soft in its old age. But she concedes: "I don't think I would have done this three or four years ago. We had to re-establish that there are rules within our society, with particular structures, and Asbos are just part of maintaining it. Asbos are a symbol of change - if someone breaches it, that is their choice, but it is also a signal from the community that we don't accept your behaviour."Clearly, Casey finds Whitehall's rules ridiculous. Last summer - before she was promoted to lead the Respect Unit - she made the news when a recording of an after-dinner speech was leaked to the press in which she praised binge drinking and threatened to "deck" Downing Street officials for being obsessed with "evidence-based policy".Similarly she has no truck with jargon."I choose my language depending on which meeting I go into. So if it is a DfES meeting I say 'challenging', if it is the Home Office I say 'enforcement', if it is the Department of Health 'support', and [to] the department of communities I say 'empowering'. Honestly, you have to play this game across Whitehall."Casey says it is her role to generate a determination to fight back. "There is part of the British that says we suffer in silence." There are others who need help as witnesses, since they are simply too fearful to complain for fear of getting a brick through the window in retaliation.Casey concludes by running through the Respect armoury. "Acceptable behaviour contracts, interim Asbos, Asbos, fixed penalty notices, dispersal orders, crack-house closures - that is all dealing with the symptoms. But that is not enough. We need a cultural change.