We're looking for help with our research into the England riots. The project is a unique collaboration between the Guardian and the London School of Economics looking into the causes and consequences of the unrest that spread across England in August.Reading the Riots has been inspired by a landmark study by journalists and academics in Detroit, in response to the deadly riots that struck the city in 1967. As with the Detroit project, we will be sending researchers into the communities affected by the disorder to interview those who were involved in the rioting and looting, their families, and other members of their communities.Could you be a researcher? Advanced skills in academic research or surveying are not essential, although both would be desirable. Experience of conducting interviews is crucial and shorthand skills would be advantageous. It is expected candidates will have a background in journalism or academia, but we recognise that other types of experience could be useful.It is important for applicants to have great communication skills, empathy, solid judgment and an ability to think on their feet. We also ask that they demonstrate a strong link to a community affected by the riots. We will offer training and pay researchers on a daily rate.If you think you could do the job then we would encourage you to submit an application here before next week's deadline. You will probably be needed for the month of October.There are other ways you may be able to help too. We've had some encouraging contact from criminologists, sociologists and public order specialists from across the world offering advice and support.Our project is being exclusively run by the Guardian and LSE, with support from our partners at the Joseph Rowntree Foundation and the Open Society Foundations, but we are all keen to collaborate with others who have expertise.If you think you have a very specific skill, please get in touch.I (Paul Lewis) am running the project on behalf of the Guardian – the LSE's involvement is led by Professor Tim Newburn, head of the university's social policy department.You can get in touch with the project team using this contact form. (Please don't use this form for inquiries about the researcher post - all the available information about applications is here.)Loading...Finally, we want to you remain part of the ongoing debate about the riots. We'll be posting regular updates about the project and affording you the chance to give your view. We have already had some great contributions on Twitter – let us know what you think by tweeting with the hashtag #ReadingTheRiots.