For me in many ways, this is the culmination of a personal journey. I was brought up in a legal household, studied law, became a barrister with the traditional lawyer's views of issues to do with civil liberties and crime.I then became an M.P. and at the same time was living in London, in the inner city. I saw first hand in London and in Sedgefield through my constituents the changing nature of our society and of law and order.The first article I wrote on ASB was in the Times in 1988. I volunteered to be Shadow Home Secretary after the 1992 election. I always remember John Smith saying to me when I told him the portfolio I wanted: "are you sure?" with that John Smith look that translated as: "are you out of your mind?"The reason I wanted it, was not just because I thought it would be politically interesting, as indeed it turned out to be; nor even because I wanted to change radically the Labour party's stance on it, though I certainly did; but because I had become, through personal experience in London, in my constituency - the inner city and rural England - convinced that we were witnessing profound social and cultural change and that the legal establishment I had been brought up in and the political establishment I had joined, were completely out of touch with this, didn't understand it and certainly weren't dealing with it.Nine years on as P.M and many pieces of legislation later, I find myself in a curious and not entirely comfortable position: attacked both for failing to be tough enough; and for being authoritarian; and sometimes by the same people on both grounds simultaneously.The situation is complicated still further by the fact that, in Government, it is true that crime has fallen. Indeed we are the first post-war British Government that has seen crime fall during its term of office. In addition, the asylum system that was in virtual chaos when we arrived in 1997, is on any objective basis, substantially better run now than then.But unsurprisingly, given the publicity, no-one would believe it. The truth is there have been improvements, there has been progress, but the gap between what the public expects and what the public sees is still there.And the political and legal establishment is still in denial. I know what large numbers of such people believe.They believe we are on a populist bandwagon, the media whips everyone up into a frenzy, and if only everyone calmed down and behaved properly the issue would go away. It may well be true that politicians can be overly populist; it may be true that, as I know more than most, the media can distort; but actually neither reason is the reason why the public are anxious.The public are anxious for a perfectly good reason: they think they play fair and play by the rules and they see too many people who don't, getting away with it. By the public I don't mean the "hang 'em and flog 'em" brigade.I mean ordinary, decent law-abiding folk, who believe in rehabilitation as well as punishment, understand there are deep-rooted causes of crime and know that no Government can eliminate it. But they think the political and legal establishment are out of touch on the issue and they are right.So when we introduced ASB legislation, it was ridiculed and in part watered down. Each piece of asylum and criminal justice legislation has been diluted, sometimes fundamentally in the Houses of Parliament.Each law on terrorism has been attacked, in one case as posing more threat to the country's safety than the terrorism itself. Sometimes the very parts of the political system most vociferous in their demand that we act on the issues have been the most determined in their resistance to the measures taken.So here we are today with the Home Office, understandably, under siege. And, of course, I don't say, for a moment that mistakes haven't been made, that competence or lack of it has not been a serious complaint.But I do say that it is a complete delusion to think that simply by changing Ministers, civil servants or practices, the gap I referred to earlier, is going to be bridged. It isn't. I have learnt many things in 9 years of Government and that is one of them.I have also learnt something else. I have come to the conclusion that part of the problem in this whole area has been the absence of a proper, considered intellectual and political debate about the nature of liberty in the modern world.In other words, crime, immigration, security - because of the emotions inevitably stirred, the headlines that naturally scream, the multiplicity of the problems raised - desperately, urgently need a rational debate, from first principles and preferably unrelated to the immediate convulsion of the moment.What's more, I believe we can get to a sensible, serious and effective answer to these issues and build a consensus in favour of them. But we can't do it unless the argument is won at a far more fundamental level than hitherto.I want to trace the combination of factors that brings us to where we find ourselves today - to a criminal justice system that needs to re-establish the public consent on which it will, ultimately, depend. In the latest BCS, 80% of the British people thought the system respected the rights of the accused. Only 35% said they were confident that the system meets the needs of victims.Why are people so much more worried about crime? The answer to that is easy.As the 20th Century opened the number of crimes recorded by the police in England and Wales per head of population were at its lowest since the first statistics were published in 1857.By 1997 the number of crimes recorded by the police was 57 times greater than in 1900. Even allowing for population growth it was 29 times higher. Theft had risen from 2 offences per 1,000 people in 1901 to 55.7 in 1992.Over the past 50 years, the detection rate almost halved. 47% of all crimes were detected in 1951 but only 26% in 2004/5. Conviction rates fell too, to 74% in 2004/5 from 96% in 1951.This growth, in the second half of the 20th century, was historically unprecedented. The reasons are very complex. They are social, intellectual and systemic.The communities of the Britain before the Second World War are relics to us now. The men worked in settled industrial occupations. Women were usually at home. Social classes were fixed and defining of identity.People grew up, went to school and moved into work in their immediate environs.Geographical and social mobility has loosened the ties of home. The family structure has changed. The divorce rate increased rapidly. Single person households are now common. The demography changed: the high-crime category of young men between 15 and 24 expanded. The disciplines of informal control - imposed in the family and in schools - are less tight than they were.The moral underpinning of this society has not, of course, disappeared entirely. That is why our anti-social behaviour legislation, for example, has proved so popular - because it is manifestly on the side of the decencies of the majority. It deliberately echoes some of the moral categories - shame, for example - that were once enforced informally.There was, at the same time, something both comforting and suffocating about these communities. But they were very effective at reproducing informal codes of conduct and order. They contained a sense of fairness and honour, what Orwell habitually referred to as "decency".Now, this fixed order of community has gone. Patterns of employment are different - women are more likely to work, nobody can expect to stay in a single job for life. Deference has declined. A more prosperous nation is a more demanding nation. Prosperity increases the opportunity for crime and makes it more lucrative.But in a sense we still live in the shadow of the Victorians. Criminal justice reform was, along with public health, the great progressive cause of the times.The capricious savagery of sentencing policy made routine victims of the poor. There was, in practice, no observed precept of equality before the law. The conditions in prison were a living hell.The problem with the reform movement was not that it failed. On the contrary it succeeded. And, out of the great achievements of 19th century penal and legal reform, flowed an unintended consequence: the ideal of being a liberal in this field became associated, subtly and insidiously, with ensuring the fair treatment of suspects and criminals, detached from an equivalent concern with victims.This was abetted by the intellectual convulsions on the academic and political left about the causes and consequences of crime. We got into the untenable position of arguing that recidivism was an entirely structural affair.The millions of people who suffered the deprivation of the 1930s depression without resorting to crime give the lie to the thesis. It had the effect of deleting individual responsibility: you might be a criminal but it was never truly your fault.The political right believed the mirror-image fallacy. Criminality, for them, was entirely a matter of individual wickedness.Of course both positions can be true, sometimes at the same time. In retrospect, the argument looks sterile, silly even. New Labour finally arrived at what has now became the conventional position, summed up in the phrase: "tough on crime, tough on the causes of crime."In reality, what is happening is simply another facet of globalisation and a changing world. Fixed communities go. The nuclear family changes. Mass migration is on the march. Prosperity means most people have something worth stealing. Drugs means more people are prepared to steal. Organised crime which trafficks in drugs and people make money. Violence, often of a qualitatively as well as quantatively different sort than anything before, accompanies it. Then there is the advent of this new phenomenon of global terrorism based on a perversion of Islam.As a result of the scale and nature of this seismic change, the challenges faced by the criminal justice and immigration systems have grown exponentially, not in a small way but in a way that, frankly, mocks a system built not for another decade but another age. So we end up fighting 21st century problems with 19thcentury solutions.In case anyone believes this is a uniquely British problem, I can tell you that at last Thursday's European Council meeting, the main topic of debate was precisely this. Every country from Malta and Spain in the south to the northern point of Europe faced the same issue with the same intensity and the same anxiety as to what to do.And the reason that it raises such profoundly disturbing questions about liberty in the modern world, is this. Because we care, rightly, about people's civil liberties, we have, traditionally, set our face against summary powers; against changing the burden of proof in fighting crime; against curbing any of the procedures and rights used by defence lawyers; against sending people back to potentially dangerous countries; against any abrogation of the normal, full legal process.But here's the rub. Without summary powers to attack ASB - ASBO's, FPN's, dispersal and closure orders on crack houses, seizing drug dealers assets - it won't be beaten. That's reality. And the proof is that until we started to introduce this legislation, it wasn't beaten and even now it can be a struggle. The scale of what we face is such that whatever the theory, in practice, in real every day street life it can't be tackled without such powers.Without the ability to force suspected organised criminals to open up their bank accounts, disclose transactions, prove they came by their assets lawfully, you can forget hitting organised crime hard. It won't happen.There is no point in saying to an overworked immigration officer: deport this foreign criminal to country X, if country X is dangerous; because at present the courts won't allow it and the officer is met with an army of lawyers and a system stacked against him. In theory, he might, just might be able to win it eventually. In practice he'll look to remove other people.Take an even harder case: failed asylum seekers. We were being hammered for not removing enough failed asylum seekers, even though we remove roughly three times the number of the previous government. Then came the Zimbabwe case.The court held that even failed claimants, if they claimed to be from Zimbabwe couldn't be returned. And we got hammered for even contemplating such a thing by the very politicians who previously had been complaining about removals.But what happened? In the month after that case, asylum claims from Zimbabwe rose 50 per cent. In other words, because of the way modern mass migration works, the moment the system received a signal it reacted and numbers immediately went up.Or you can say - many did - the right to trial by jury is inalienable and even the most serious and complex fraud cases, taking months, sometimes years to try, must be done that way. Fine: but the reality is a large proportion of such cases collapse or are never brought.Here is the point. Each time someone is the victim of ASB, of drug related crime; each time an illegal immigrant enters the country or a perpetrator of organised fraud or crime walks free, someone else's liberties are contravened, often directly, sometimes as part of wider society. It's no use saying that in theory there should be no conflict between the traditional protections for the suspect and the rights of the law-abiding majority because, as a result of the changing nature of crime and society, there is, in practice, such a conflict; and every day we don't resolve it, by rebalancing the system, the consequence is not abstract, it is out there, very real on our streets.Let me give an even more pointed example. At present, we can't deport people from Britain even if we suspect them of plotting terrorism unless we are sure that, if deported, they won't suffer abuse on their return home.In fact, even if we put them through a form of judicial process overseen by a High Court judge or even convict them, we cannot do it. As a result of what I announced last year, we are now seeking to deport people from various countries; but I say seeking, because the test cases in court are only now being decided.I agree the human rights of these individuals, if considered absolute, would militate against their deportation. But surely if they aren't deported and conduct acts of terrorism, their victims' rights have been violated by the failure to deport.And even if they don't commit such an act or they don't succeed in doing so, the time, energy, effort, resource in monitoring them puts a myriad of other essential task at risk and therefore the rights of the wider society.This is not an argument about whether we respect civil liberties or not; but whose take priority. It is not about choosing hard line policies over an individual's human rights. It's about which human rights prevail. In making that decision, there is a balance to be struck.I am saying it is time to rebalance the decision in favour of the decent, law-abiding majority who play by the rules and think others should too.Of course the danger is that we end up with rough justice, a danger even now when we use summary powers to close crack houses or seize the assets of suspects. It is exactly to guard against such danger that the rebalancing has to be done with the utmost care and scrutiny.But the brute reality is that just as with rights, rough justice works both ways too. There is not rough justice but rough injustice when neighbourhoods are terrorised by gangs and the system is not capable of protecting them.These questions are fundamental, difficult and immensely controversial.Unsurprisingly, there is a strong desire to escape their fundamental nature by taking refuge in simple explanations and remedies. One is repeal of the Human Rights Act. There are issues to do with the way the Act is interpreted and its case law, which we are examining.But let me be very clear. These problems existed long before the Human Rights Act. Every modern democracy has human rights legislation: and in any event the British Human Rights Act is merely the incorporation into British law of the provisions of the ECHR, to which we have been bound for over half a century.Besides, in the ECHR, there are countervailing provisions to do with public safety and national security which would permit precisely the more balanced approach I advocate. In addition, of course, Parliament has the right expressly to override the Human Rights Act.And it's not the existence of the Human Rights Act or the ECHR that has made Parliament behave in the way it has.Another false solution is to focus all the attention on sentencing. Again there are issues to do with sentencing guidelines, like the automatic reductions for guilty pleas and aspects of early release, which again we are looking at.But the introduction of the Sentencing Guidelines Council has brought greater consistency. The Criminal Justice Act 2003 does allow indeterminate sentences for violent and sexual offences, ie life can mean life and Courts are using them. Prison sentences are longer - I mean actual time in prison. More people are in prison.Prison places have expanded by 19,000 since 1997 and are due to expand still further. Also, once more, let me be clear. Judicial independence is a foundation stone of the British Constitution and our Judges are rightly respected and admired for their quality the world over.I am afraid the issue is far more profound: it is the culture of political and legal decision-making that has to change, to take account of the way the world has changed. It is not this or that judicial decision; this or that law.It is a complete change of mindset, an avowed, articulated determination to make protection of the law-abiding public the priority and to measure that not by the theory of the textbook but by the reality of the street and community in which real people live real lives.So what would need to happen to bring about such a revolution in thinking? I would identify four strands of work.The first is to put in place laws that properly reflect the reality. There is a myth that we have legislated 50 times, the problem still exists, ergo we don't need more laws. I disagree. These laws have made a difference.The residents I spoke to on Southmead Estate here in Bristol yesterday complained bitterly about aspects of the Court system, to which I shall return in a moment.However, it was only by dint of the ASB laws that they were able to take action at all and though it took too long, in the end the offending families had indeed been removed.Likewise, there is no way we would have cut asylum claims from over 80,000 a few years back to just over 20,000 now and be removing more unfounded claims than we receive, without the laws passed, again in the teeth of fierce opposition, in 2002. And tell me how many senior police and those working for the SOCA would want to be without the Proceeds of Crime Act.Laws have made a real difference, but they have not been clear or tough enough. We need to do an audit of where the gaps are, in the laws that are necessary. Just in the past few months, from talking to people and police, I can think of examples where such gaps exist.For example, the powers to arrest and bring immediately to court those who break their undertakings to have treatment for drug addiction. We need swifter, summary powers to deal with ASB. The limits on the seizure of assets of suspects need to be changed.We need to use the law to send strong signals that those who break bail or drug treatment orders or community sentences will get quickly and appropriately punished. And we will need to reflect carefully on the outcome of the pending cases on deportation and if necessary act.The second strand is that along with the right laws, we need systems capable of administering them. The court system has improved over the years. But let me be honest: it is not what the public expects or wants.Again, rather than blaming this or that court official, we need a more profound look at why they don't operate as they should. The CJS treats all cases in a similar way. But they aren't similar. There is a strong case for handling different types of crime in different ways.We are developing now the concept of community courts, like the ones in Liverpool and Salford and specialist ASB, drugs and domestic violence courts - but these are the exception not the rule.But what is necessary is, piece by piece, to analyse where the shortcomings are and put in place the systems to remove them.Time and again I hear from angry victims and witnesses of how cases are dragged out, constant adjournments, ineffective trials through the non-attendance of the defendant; and for people facing violence or ASB in their street, every day, every week, every month they are having to live with the people who are making their lives hell.There are already change programmes taking place in the SOCA to handle organised crime, in IND and in the new prison and probation service. And of course in the IT programmes to join the system up. But, as John Reid has rightly indicated, we need to use the current furore about the Home Office to go back over each and every part of them to make sure they will be fit for purpose.This brings me to the third strand: focus on the offender, not just the offence. If an offender has a drug problem, or a mental health problem, and most do, then sentencing him for the offence will only do temporary good if the offending behaviour is not dealt with.Now, again, work has begun on this. Those arrested are now tested for drugs.Drug treatment is being rapidly expanded, in some places doubled or tripled. But the truth is each suspect and then offender should be tracked throughout the system, given not just a sentence but an appropriate process for sorting their life out; and if they don't, be followed up, brought back to court. Local authorities need to have the powers to take account of such behaviour when assessing service entitlements.The system needs to share the information. The role of the NOMS will be utterly crucial. In other words, there is wholesale system reform that has to take place.And here is where the fourth strand of work is relevant. Whenever I talk of public service reform, then, not unnaturally, people think of the NHS and education. But many of the same principles apply to the CJS. It is a public service, or at least should be. Its role is to protect the public by dispensing justice.Yet of all the public services, it is the one which, the more the public is in contact with it, the less satisfied they are by their experience. Capturing and disseminating best practice; using different and new providers, for example from the voluntary sector, in the management of offenders; giving the victim a right to be heard in relation to sentencing, at least for the most violent crimes; breaking down the monopoly, "one size fits all" court provision: all of these things should have a place in a modern CJS fighting the modern reality of crime.It is on the detail of all this that John will focus at the end of July, but one other point remains vital. In none of this have I forgotten the causes of crime. I believe passionately that a person with a stake in society, something to look forward to, an opportunity to reach out for, is far more likely to be a responsible member of society than someone without such a life chance.We have introduced Sure Start; the New Deal; increased Child Benefit; are spending a lot of money on innercity regeneration and all to good effect. It's not wasted, it's making a real difference to real lives. I also know that what happens in prison matters deeply and that the pressure on the prison population is a real problem.Moreover, the blunt reality is that, at least in the short and medium term, the measures proposed will mean an increase in prison places. How prison works is an essential component.All of these things - from help to poorer families to rehabilitation in prison - are crucial to fighting crime and in dwelling on the issues to do with the CJS I don't mean to imply otherwise.But even in tackling the causes of crime, we come back to some unpalatable choices about liberty and security. The "hardest to reach" families are often the ones we need to reach most. People know what it's like to live on the same estate as the family from hell. Imagine what it's like to be brought up in one.We need far earlier intervention with some of these families, who are often socially excluded and socially dysfunctional.That may mean before they offend; and certainly before they want such intervention. But in truth, we can identify such families virtually as their children are born. The power to intervene is another very tricky area; but again, on the basis of my experience, the normal processes and the programmes of help we have rightly introduced, won't do it.So we come back to the central conundrum. Most people would accept there is a gap between what the public expects in terms of society, the behaviour of others, and the CJS regulating or dealing with such behaviour; and what the public gets.Our lives have changed in so many ways for the better. But in one part of modern life, people feel we have regressed and that is in the respect we show for each other. Largely, at any rate, we have left behind deference and many forms of discrimination and prejudice. But respect on the basis of equality is something at the root of any civic society. It is what makes a community tick. It is what gives life order and allows us to pursue our aspirations and ambitions with peace of mind.We won't achieve this by nostalgia by hankering after the past. It's gone. We will do it by recognising the reality of the modern world and the modern forces attacking such order and peace of mind. Such is the changing nature of that world and the ferocity of those forces, we need to adjust, to reclaim the system and thereby the street for the law-abiding majority.That means not disrespecting civil liberties but re-assessing what respect for them means today and placing a far higher priority, in what is a conflict of rights, on the rights of those who keep the law rather than break it.This is not the argument of the lynch mob or of people who are indifferent to convicting the innocent, it is simply a reasonable and rational response to a problem that is as much one of modernity as of liberty. But such a solution will not happen without a radical change in political and legal culture and that is the case I make today.