A teacher at an all-girls public school has been jailed for 15 months for conducting a secret sexual relationship with a pupil.Emily Fox, who taught PE at the Royal Masonic school for girls in Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire, exchanged hundreds of "sexually explicit" messages with the 15-year-old, St Albans crown court heard.The pair struck up a friendship in November 2012 but from Easter 2013 developed an "intense" bond that involved kissing and later sexual touching, the court heard. At one point the girl told the teacher she "loved her as a friend".The relationship was discovered in August last year when a revealing email was printed out inadvertently and seen by the parents of the victim, who cannot be named for legal reasons.Fox, 26, from Bath, pleaded guilty last month to four counts of engaging in sexual activity with a child while in a position of trust.Passing sentence, Judge Stephen Gullick said she was a "gifted and well-loved" teacher. But he said: "In my judgment, you were always aware that the relationship was not only wrong but also unlawful." He said the sexual relationship lasted three or four months.The judge said the teacher's reputation was "in tatters", and he accepted a jail term would be "extremely difficult". But he stressed that "this type of behaviour towards pupils by teachers" must be seen as "extremely grave".Sally Mealing-McLeod, prosecuting, said contact between the pair began in November 2012. She said: "Initially it was what one could really call a friendship, as such. However, that changed around Easter 2013 and ... became far more intense. (The victim) told (the defendant) that she loved her as a friend, that she cared for her, and after that it clearly turned into a much more in-depth relationship. It began with kissing one another... and then, a little later on, turned into more of a sexual relationship."She said the relationship came to light when the victim tried to print an email but the printer did not work. The prosecutor said: "A week later the father was using the printer when that particular document was printed. That clearly disclosed some sort of relationship. As a result the mother (of the victim) contacted the school and spoke to the headmistress."When spoken to by police, the victim at first denied any relationship, the court heard, before disclosing it at a second visit. Mealing-McLeod said an "abundance" of evidence to support the charges was discovered in WhatsApp messages between the pair.Fox, who started working at the school in 2010, was charged after she attended a police station by appointment in September last year.Dee Connelly, mitigating, said Fox had shown a "degree of bravery" in admitting the offences and felt "remorse and contrition". She had wanted to be a teacher from a young age and accepts her "cherished" career is now ruined, the barrister said. Fox took an overdose in 2011 and suffered depression after her parents moved to America, the court heard.Connelly urged the judge to take into account that the age gap between the two was "not that great" and also said the defendant had been "gravely concerned" about the impact on the victim.Fees at the Royal Masonic School for Girls cost up to £25,000 a year. The school was founded in 1788 to educate the daughters of Freemasons who were unable to support their families.