The wife of serial killer Harold Shipman spoke publicly for the first time yesterday to say that she is convinced of her husband's innocence and is working towards an appeal.Primrose Shipman spent 90 minutes answering questions - primarily about the deaths of two patients and the near-death of another - during the public inquiry into the deaths of 401 of her husband's patients. Shipman is serving life for the murder of 15 women patients.Mrs Shipman was asked by Andrew Spink, representing the families of some of Shipman's victims: "You remain convinced of your husband's innocence of the charges on which he is convicted. Is that right?" "Yes," she replied."You are doing all you can to assist the solicitors bringing the appeal?" he asked. "Yes," she said.Mrs Shipman, who has been married for 35 years, had been given immunity from prosecution arising from any evidence she gave to the inquiry, except for charges of giving false evidence. Her replies were often a stark "yes" or "no" or "I can't remember".She could recall little detail about the deaths of Joyce Woodhead, 74, who died at her home in Hyde, Greater Manchester, in February 1997 following a visit from Shipman, and Irene Chapman, 74, who died in March 1998 after he visited her home.Shipman had signed a cremation certificate stating that Mrs Shipman had been present at the time of Mrs Chapman's death, but she said she was sitting in their car outside.When her husband asked her to go inside the house, she said, Mrs Chapman was already dead, but she could not say anything about the cause or manner of her death.She denied removing two rings from a drawer in the dead woman's home.On the day of Joyce Woodhead's death, she had been watching her son play rugby when her husband's bleeper went off. He went into Mrs Woodhead's house, while she sat outside in the car, she said. She thought there was an ambulance outside and she thought her husband asked her to go into the house to speak to Mrs Woodhead's sister, who had become distressed, but she had no recollection of what was said. "I was comforting her."She had no recollection of another incident more than 27 years ago in Todmorden, West Yorkshire, when Elaine Oswald collapsed after Shipman administered an injection.Professor Oswald had told the inquiry she remembered Shipman's wife and three-year-old son standing in her bedroom as she regained consciousness, but Mrs Shipman said she remembered nothing at all about it.Nor could she remember inviting Professor Oswald and her husband for dinner shortly afterwards.She could remember her husband suffering blackouts and driving him to some of his home visits. The inquiry has been told that at this time her husband was addicted to pethidine.Towards the end of her questions, Mrs Shipman became distressed when asked about Mrs Chapman's death. She said: "I am sorry, I have got myself all confused... as far as I can remember, she was dead when I went in the house."In a written statement to the inquiry, Mrs Shipman said she had been through great emotional trauma, stress and anxiety arising out of the investigation and prosecution. "Apart from this there has been local, national and international press and media intrusion into my family life," she said.Her counsel, Jim Sturman, said Mrs Shipman had now said all she had to publicly and he asked for her to be allowed privacy to carry on with her life.Dame Janet Smith, the inquiry chairman, acknowledged how difficult it must have been for Mrs Shipman to give evidence to the inquiry.But the relatives of Shipman's victims were not impressed by her answers."It was a waste of time," said Jayne Gaskell, whose mother, Bertha Moss, was murdered by her former doctor. "She only remembered what she wanted to remember and it has done nothing to help the inquiry."