The home secretary, Charles Clarke, vowed yesterday to make driving down violent crime his "number one priority" in the face of police recorded crime figures showing that violence rose by 6% in the past year.The official quarterly crime figures published yesterday showed that overall crime continued to fall in the year to September 2004 and the risk of becoming a crime victim, at one in four, is the lowest for more than 20 years. The British Crime Survey, which measures people's experience of crime and is regarded as the more authoritative indicator of crime trends, shows that total crime fell by 11%, including a 9% fall in violent crime.The police recorded crime figures also show a fall in crime by 6%, including a 23% fall in domestic burglaries, an 18% fall in robberies, and a 17% fall in car crime. But they also show that violent crime rose by 6% over the 12 months to September 2004, including a 22% rise in sex offences, a 12% rise in offences against the person involving injury and a 5% rise in gun crime. The Home Office reports a sharp rise in the use of imitation firearms. The murder rate for England and Wales fell for the first time in seven years, down from 1,045 deaths to 858, with the murders committed by Dr Harold Shipman responsible for most of the fall. An international comparison of murder rates shows that England and Wales is below the European average, although London has a higher homicide rate than Paris or Madrid. Fear of crime also continues to drop, with the anxiety of becoming a victim of violent crime down from 19% to 16% over the past year. This is the first time in recent years that both the BCS and the police crime figures have both shown a fall in overall crime. Mr Clarke said the effect of changes in police methods in reporting and recording violent crime introduced since 1998 had inflated a 24% underlying fall in the figures into an unadjusted 54% rise in the headline violent crime figures. "Violent crime is still the biggest challenge. It will be my major number one priority to drive down violent crime," he said. When the violent crime statistics were taken "in the round", he said, the underlying rate was already downwards. In particular the 22% rise in sex offences was the result of increased reporting and the introduction of new categories of sex crimes, which came into effect in May. Much of the rest of the increase in violent crime was due to better reporting of "low-level thuggery" and domestic violence. Mr Clarke said he would make no apology for encouraging people to report violent crime and insisted that he would not look for "cheap headlines" by discouraging the reporting of serious offences. He acknowledged that the government would be building up "a massive problem for the future" if it did not try to get a grip on alcohol-fuelled offences: "Anybody who goes into the streets of some of our town centres on Friday or Saturday nights knows that there is a major issue that needs to be addressed." But the Tory shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the government was indulging in "spin and selective reporting of the facts", and that violent crime had really gone up by 12% since 1998: "Violent crime, gun crime, violence against the person and sex offences are all higher than this time last year. Tony Blair's promise to get a grip on this problem was all talk." Mark Oaten of the Liberal Democrats said Labour had to take responsibility for the rising tide of alcohol-fuelled crime. He suggested that the best way to tackle the problem was to scrap the plans for compulsory identity cards and use the money to fund a further 10,000 police officers. But the Association of Chief Police Officers welcomed the figures, saying they showed that targeted police initiatives and working in partnership were having a big impact on crime and public confidence. "The fall in violent crime shown by the British Crime Survey is encouraging, and we continue to believe that the rise in recorded violent crime is, in part, due to changes in recording practices," said the association's president, Chris Fox. He added that campaigns such as the crackdown on alcohol-related crime and irresponsible and illegally operating drinking premises had made big inroads.