Jeffrey Archer won't have to forfeit his £12-a-week wage for peeling potatoes. He may continue to indulge his Highland Spring water habit at the prison shop, as long as he publishes no more memoirs before his release. The authorities' leniency should surprise no one. They don't want to beatify Jeffrey the jailhouse martyr, but they are also observing tradition.The Establishment lionises posh convicts, particularly the literary sort. When Jean Genet got life for serial burglary, Sartre, Gide and Cocteau persuaded the President of the Republic to let him out. Archer is no Genet, but his stories of how Aquascutum man ended up slumming it among the flotsam of humanity, without so much as a power shower or a monogrammed bathsheet at his disposal, have strangely enhanced his reputation.How public-spirited of Lord Archer to tell us prison life is hellish. How perceptive to point out that some murderers were abused as kids. But even if you buy the implausible notion of Jeffrey the penal reformer, a few quibbles remain. Why is he cluttering up the system at all, when the current prison population is a record 72,241, plus 259 people held in police cells at £300 a night? Although the row about overcrowding peaked in April, the crisis has got silently worse. Last week, the figure rose, typically, by 170. Much better to have given Archer a backbreaking community sentence, satisfying his social reformist zeal while denying him a lucrative platform for confessions of despair and suicidal urges. As if. Archer is an exception to Oscar Wilde's theory that each man kills the thing he loves. For such an ardent exponent of amour-propre as Lord Jeff seriously to consider doing himself in with a disposable Bic razor sounds doubtful. But hyperbole, like Archer's graver crimes, has been glossed over by those who applaud him for illuminating a dark world and introducing a new genre. Let us have more prison diaries. Here's one. On 29 September, 2001, Kevin Jacobs killed himself at Feltham Young Offenders' Institution. He was 16. In the absence of a throwaway razor, he hanged himself from a sheet tied to his cell bars. On 26 September this year, an inquest jury returned a verdict of 'suicide to which neglect contributed'. That outcome coincided with a more explosive prison story. At the time of the verdict, Lord Archer was being whisked to Lincoln high security jail after an apparent breach of his home-release licence. The fuss over the alleged flouting of his human right to attend Gillian Shephard's lunch party so monopolised the attention of the media and the prison service that Kevin Jacobs' suicide barely got an airing. So her, for those who missed it, is his unwritten diary. It begins on 3 July, 2001, when he was remanded to Feltham on a minor robbery charge. In care since he was seven, he was a disturbed and vulnerable boy, desperate for adults' attention. His favourite outing, he told them, was to go fishing on a lake. Everyone involved in his case agreed that he should never have been in prison. On 19 July, Kevin was given a six-month detention and training order. On 14 September, after he had been bullied several times, he was found hanging in his cell, unconscious. He told the warders who revived him that he wanted to die. On 26 September, he smashed a light and toyed with a plastic knife. Staff, discovering ripped sheets and a large hook under his bed, moved him to the health centre. On 27 September, he was transferred to a normal cell, because the safe one on the wing was being refurbished. On 28 September, his social worker came to visit. Kevin, craving security, had hoped for release to his old care home in Guildford. That day, it was confirmed that there was no place for him. A few hours later, he was dead. When 97 prisoners under 21 have killed themselves in five years, such tragedies become too commonplace for horror; too diffuse for guilt. The statutory agencies involved, though heavily criticised, operated in a culture where neglect is practically mandatory. Even Feltham can justify, with some plausibility, its role in a child's death. Individual officers were kind to Kevin. The prison, once a byword for corroding some lives and curtailing others, is now better than several similar institutions. What can the prison service do when it is the unwilling longstop for children who should never be in jail? Kevin Jacobs's prison diary, unlike Lord Archer's, was far from unique. One child dies every 90 days in prison. The Government has just sanctioned locking up 12-year-olds accused of minor offences, knowing there will be no lack of candidates. More than 40 per cent of children in some areas now play truant, with a symmetrical knock-on effect. Forty per cent of street crime is committed by those aged between 10 and 16 in school hours. In this climate, Estelle Morris's intervention in the case of the two boys excluded for issuing death threats against a teacher who told them off for dropping litter and throwing stones seems unwise and puzzling. A crisp packet cannot fall in an Epsom playground without the reverberations being heard throughout Whitehall. But, on the broader question, Ms Morris is said to be 'relaxed' about rising exclusions. Of the 9,210 pupils expelled in a year, African-Caribbean children are three times more likely to be debarred than their white counterparts. Black children are treated more harshly by the courts. Quite how such vicious circles can be broken is unclear, especially when the most strident political crusaders on youth justice are Oliver Letwin and a disgraced Tory peer. There are other voices of protest, in the excellent organisations scrutinising the penal system. If Lord Archer would care to donate his royalties to them, they could do even more. As it is, the Howard League will go to the High Court next month to argue that it is brutal, inhumane and illegal for the Government to lock up 3,000 teenagers. Films such as Out of Control and Sweet Sixteen suggest that concern has percolated beyond pressure groups. Even so, society is enthralled by the prison diaries of a rich perjurer but hardly touched by another story of a teenage suicide. The reason is obvious. Jeffrey Archer's nemesis is all his own work, whereas the death of Kevin Jacobs is of our devising and on our conscience. No one set out to execute a child who tried to snatch a handbag. But when a tragedy is so predictable, society and the justice system might as well have shredded the sheets and tied the knot. Kevin Jacobs is beyond punishment now. And so is Lord Archer, who will congratulate himself that, in opening Belmarsh to the masses, he has performed a public service. Rubbish. There are many more illuminating stories on offer. Anyone wanting to know how the penal system treats errant peers and abandoned children should save themselves the £14.99 that A Prison Diary costs and instead look up the more robust reports of Her Majesty's Prisons Inspectorate. Archer's book contains only one real revelation about prison life. It has emphasised how little we want to know. mary.riddell@observer.co.uk 