Vital services that keep the homeless young Londoners I work with in the circle of civilised society are evaporating. To those of us working on the frontline of youth services, it had become increasingly clear that something, in some form, was on its way to shake us.By Monday morning it was clear that this something had started. By the afternoon, I had young people running into my office shouting: "Things are gonna kick off in Lewisham. Put the news on, put the news on." Within half an hour, the news came through and they were right. Throughout the day, they demanded to know what the news was saying, what I knew, what was making it on to the TV screens. This is the first time, after a year of encouraging them to engage with the world around them, that any of them had shown any interest in what the media had to say. One of them asked of the news reporters, "What are they saying about us?"I was struck by this use of "us", this unquestioning affinity with the youth of Lewisham. At this point, not one of them had set foot in any of the riot zones, but there was no question that these were their people and this was somehow their story. On Tuesday morning, one girl told me that the leaders of the Cherry Boys, a notorious south-east London gang, had been ushering people in and out of the Charlton branch of JD Sports on Monday afternoon, telling people: "Keep it moving. Keep it moving. Get your stuff and let next man in."I managed to extract from another boy the information that he had been down to Woolwich with his "boys". I have known him for nearly two years and have witnessed him suffering at the hands of Woolwich gangs. The last time he had been in the area, more than 12 months ago, he had been almost fatally stabbed. Rivalries that nearly ended his life were, for that night, put aside: "Nah, Bruv," he told me. "Last night London was free."It is all too apparent, as events continue to unfold, that the stories of the people behind these riots are not being heard. If we listened, we would understand that there are far better explanations than the "criminality, pure and simple" offered by David Cameron.In recent days, people have been afraid to leave their homes, and yet a young man feels free to walk through a neighbouring area for the first time in a decade. Residents are angry because the heart has been ripped out of their communities, while young people have begun to talk of "us". Shop owners have fought to defend what is theirs against those taking what they could not have. Roles have been reversed; our city and our society have been turned upside down. Is it any surprise to see that they want what we all want – the ability to move freely, community, identity and, like all of us, material possessions? This is the way a disaffected, voiceless youth tell us what they do not have.We have shut down their youth centres and cancelled their education maintenance allowance. We have chipped away at their stake in society. We have no choice but to listen, because something is being said, however ineffectively, unjustifiably and destructively. To try to understand this is not to condone it. But, by dismissing the rioters as wanton criminals, we deny the serious failings in our system and take the last step in removing them completely from a society they feel is no longer theirs.