It was the most remarkable of changes. The Sunday Telegraph had the leak to beat all leaks, parts of the report into the Stephen Lawrence investigation. That was in their first edition and was read by those lucky enough to buy their Sunday papers on Saturday night or who live a long way from London. By the time the later editions came out the story had been pulled, victim of a Government injunction applied for by the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, and agreed to by a judge late on Saturday evening. The Sunday Telegraph had already printed nearly 300,000 copies with details of the report. The rest of the run was denuded. "It is the first edition that gets to Scotland and it was the first edition which had the story in," said Matthew d'Ancona, deputy editor of the Sunday Telegraph. "We managed to shift, I think, between two and three hundred thousand copies and our Scottish readership is upwards of about 40,000."  The Government action, condemned by the editor of the Sun as "out and out bullying", is yet another dramatic twist in a tale which is as much about ownership of the Lawrence story as it is about reporting the story. Every paper is engaged in a battle to say "we did the Lawrence story best". It shows great anti-racist credentials and plays well with the public.  This is the Sunday Telegraph's biggest play for that right of ownership, whether or not the family like what they did. One family friend said yesterday that she was personally "disgusted" by the Sunday Telegraph's actions.  "Just imagine being in the Lawrences' shoes with these things coming out early," said Ros Howells. "I do not think the press fully appreciate the family is vulnerable out there, they don't know who is a friend and who is a foe. I think it would have been very useful to wait for the Lawrence family to see it [the report] so at least they would be prepared emotionally and physically." She said she supported what the Government has done.  A hundred questions will still remain when the inquiry report is published. Will newspapers continue to report on "ethnic" stories with the same enthusiasm, or will they slip back into their old ways, ignoring race stories because they don't sell newspapers?  The role of the press in race relations has always been important. All the reports on inner-city uprisings from Kerner in the US in the sixties, to Scarman and Gifford in Britain in the eighties, refer to the negative role played by the news media in the way they report on black people, and how that role is one cause of problems.  Long before it went mainstream, the Lawrence murder had been reported in the black press. It was only when an unlikely champion of a black cause, the Daily Mail, ran its now-famous "Murderers" front-page splash just after the inquest into Stephen's death that the national media started to realise this was a story that deserved some space. Until then, although it had appeared as a second or third lead in a few broadsheets, the press as a whole had shown little or no interest.  It is probably fair to say that most papers were guilty of the same assumptions that they now accuse the police of having at the time of the murder; black kid killed in south London - drugs or gangs must be involved. Not a sexy story. It's a theory that gains credence when you look at what the nationals have actually written about the case since they started reporting it.  In the 2,133 days since Stephen's killers got away with murder, the investigative journalism that so many of Fleet Street's finest pride themselves on has been notably absent. Where were the stories on police connections with organised crime in that area of south London? Where were the interviews with Duwayne Brooks, the only witness to the murder, who consistently said there were six attackers not five (just two papers have spoken to him in nearly six years). And why has nobody picked up on that point until very recently?  All we have been given are a few patronising remarks about the "dignity" shown by Doreen and Neville Lawrence - as though a dignified black family were a rarity - and (often inaccurate) reports on the more titillating testimony at the Macpherson Inquiry. Over the past week we have been treated to a few leaks detailing what the inquiry report is likely to recommend. Seldom have so many words been used to say so little.  Writer and broadcaster Marc Wadsworth, founder of the Anti-Racist Alliance which started the Lawrence campaign, and who masterminded its news media strategy from the outset, describes newspaper coverage of the case as "Episodic. It's oscillated between the Daily Mail championing the case and others still ignoring it. I wonder how much the Daily Star has put in the paper for its Northern readers. The Sun's been slow to stir. Whose story is it?"  Richard Adeshiyan, former editor of the black paper the Weekly Journal and launch editor of New Nation, has his own ideas: "It was bandwagon journalism. When us [the Weekly Journal] and The Voice first started to look at the case, there was no one else on it. It was a black story gazumped by the white press."  One thing the coverage has highlighted has been how little the white journalists asked to cover the story know about the black community. In the black press, journalists are bombarded with examples of their ignorance every day, and inundated with phone calls from TV researchers and reporters asking if they know any black people who would be suitable to interview. "Maybe if you were to hire some black staff… " they tell them.  At New Nation the other day a reporter rang to ask if the paper had spoken to any of the five men accused of murdering Stephen. As though those guys really love talking to black people.  The Voice's political and current affairs correspondent, Paul Macey, has covered the Lawrence story since the start of the inquest into Stephen's death two-and-a-half years ago, and he is equally unimpressed by the efforts of the nationals. "A few national journalists turned up at the inquest, but it was when the Mail did what they did that took it to new heights, although it soon died off. "Having said that, though, the Independent has been consistent. They and the Observer have been pretty good on the bigger picture."  Macey gives a graphic example of how the supposedly friendly black press were only too happy to rekindle all their old stereotypes when a black organisation that they probably felt threatened by made a stand.  "I remember the day at the inquiry when the Nation of Islam supposedly stormed the building. I was the only journalist who went downstairs to see what was happening, no one else did; they stayed upstairs and took what the police briefed them with. The next day I asked a TV reporter why she had made it look like the Nation of Islam had tried to cause a riot when they had not. ‘Oh, that's what my editor wanted,' she replied."  So what of the future? It has to be said that it doesn't look good. The Mail seems to have reverted to type with its atrocious two-page attack on the Somali community in west London, which claimed that thousands of Somalis were living on state handouts.  There also seems to be collusion between the press and the police - where journalists are fed good stories that effectively demonise black people whom the police have some kind of conflict with, to destroy any public support for them.  Stories about a rift between Neville Lawrence and Duwayne Brooks and stories on Neville and Doreen's marital difficulties have hardly helped their cause either.  Wadsworth remains concerned: "The problem in this country is that the British media has a long history of building people up and, Glenn Hoddle-style, knocking them back down. Doreen and Neville are too precious to us for that to happen to them."  • Michael Eboda is editor of New Nation