Two people were arrested today over the £26.5m Northern Bank robbery in Belfast last December, the Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said.One of those arrested is believed to be Chris Ward, 24, a Northern Bank employee who described at the time of the robbery how he had been held captive in his house during the biggest bank raid in British history.Police would not confirm the identity of either of those being questioned, saying only that they had detained a 24-year-old man and a 22-year-old woman. A PSNI spokesman said the pair might be held for questioning overnight. But a detective familiar with the case, speaking on condition of anonymity, is said to have confirmed Mr Ward's name to the Associated Press.Three men have already been charged by detectives investigating the robbery. One man was charged with two counts of false imprisonment, possessing a firearm and the robbery itself.The 24-year-old was arrested after officers and forensic experts in armed Land Rovers arrived at a house in Poleglass, west Belfast, at 6am. They searched the property and examined a car parked outside the house, before moving to a different address to arrest the woman.In December 2004 Mr Ward said gunmen burst into his home and threatened to kill his family if he did not obey their instructions. He said the robbers kept his family captive in the house, while he was driven at gunpoint to the home of supervisor Kevin McMullan in Loughinisland, Co Down."It was just terrifying ... even the fact that they knew I was involved in Celtic [football club], they knew where I lived, they knew my family, they knew my family's names - they knew about my brother and his girlfriend," Mr Ward said during a television interview after his ordeal.The two men were ordered to go in to work as normal the following day while Mr McMullan's wife was taken from her home by gang members.Throughout the day, the men were ordered to let gang members into the bank's vaults so they could begin clearing the cash into rubbish bags. Security staff were told the bags were going to be collected by a removal firm.The cash was then transferred to a white van that made two runs to transport all the money. The vaults at Northern Bank's headquarters were emptied during the multi-million pound heist.None of the money from the robbery has ever been recovered. The bank was forced to issue redesigned banknotes and withdraw the earlier issue to make the robbers' haul worthless.Mr Ward has been off work on sick leave ever since the robbery. He has always denied any involvement in the raid.Chief Constable Sir Hugh Orde blamed the IRA for the robbery a month after the heist took place.