We keep being told that feminism has had its day. Women have pulled down all the barriers to their aspirations, have renegotiated their relationships with men and are now scaling the heights that were formerly beyond their reach. The f-word cannot be mentioned without a boo from the sidelines. Girls are doing better than boys in education; they are filling the universities; they are becoming priests. Childcare is being shared, new men are staying at home while their women bring home the bacon. If we are to believe certain newspapers our preoccupations now are simply to ensure our pay is high and our weight is low. A few more legislative changes and all will be well with the world.In many respects it is true that the battle for formal equality has been won. For the most part, old-fashioned rank prejudice has gone since the laws which underpin formal equality were introduced in 1976. Examples of crude, in-your-face prejudice are much more rare. The case which now has to be made is for substantive equality - treatment as equals, taking account of the real experiences of women and the context of their lives. There has to be greater understanding of the differential effects of policies which, on the face of it, are neutral. It is also important to acknowledge that women are not just one homogenous group. Discrimination now is much more subtle and nuanced and often operates most fiercely at that junction where different forms of prejudice intersect. When race and class overlap with the social vector of gender, we see in sharp focus the disadvantages still suffered by so many women. Being poor and female makes for a very different experience from that of the middle-class professional. Add the brickbats of racism, and the burden of multiple discrimination can be unbearable. The backlash against feminism takes many forms. Men are the ones we are now to be concerned about. They are being battered; they are having false claims made against them of child abuse because of false memory syndrome; they are being refused access to their children; they are falling prey to shameless hussies who try to get money out of tabloids for their stories. All of it does happen. Men can be used and abused too. Their pain at false accusation is no less. Their loss of their children is just as raw a wound. But the smoke and mirrors used to enlarge these claims are the products of fear that the old arrangements between the sexes might be reconfigured in ways that may be less to the satisfaction of some men. After September 11, American evangelical preachers even claimed that the events were a punishment for the behaviour of feminists and other deviants. I have just rewritten Eve Was Framed, my book on women and the criminal justice system which was originally published in 1992, and it is shocking to see that although a lot has happened, not enough has changed. I do not want to minimise the many gains that have been made by women over the past decade. There are causes for optimism. The creation of pilot programmes, where special domestic violence courts will operate a speedy, multi-agency response to abuse is a major development. The many projects within the police, prosecution and penal service to address women's concerns are to be welcomed. There is a desperate need for special units to deal with rape cases and the Crown Prosecution Service is putting them in place. A lot has improved within the courts and legal system. We have more women on the bench and practising in the courts. There is no doubt that the government has taken on many women's issues and taken women's experience of victimisation to the heart of criminal law policy. However, there has been a rolling of women's concerns into a generalised rhetoric about victims. All victims are bundled up together, when policy-makers should be brave enough to say that cases involving abuse of intimacy and the historic discrimination against women deserve special treatment. However, many ministers live in fear of being ridiculed as being in the thrall of "feminists"; they recoil from the reality that the most ill-treated victims within our system are women and children, and that this is still a reflection of some very disconcerting facts about male violence. What is the gender of most children abused over a long period and eventually killed by parents? From Jasmine Beckford to Victoria Climbie, go through the files of the NSPCC and you will find that they are almost invariably girls. Of course, boy children are also killed in outbursts of rage or to wreak revenge but the slow torture of children is most often directed at girls. What is the gender of the partner most often beaten in a relationship? What is the gender of those most often sexually violated? When we hear a body has been found, someone killed in a park by a stranger, what sex is the victim? When we hear of honour killings who is found dead? The gendered nature of certain crimes and their victims and the gendered nature of so much law, because it is largely created and administered by men, is still insufficiently recognised or discussed. Instead of debating all these questions boldly, politicians hide behind the much more acceptable cloak of a generalised heading, marked "victims". Often with victims as their alibi, huge inroads are made into civil liberties. The most troubling and pressing questions are never asked. What is it about men that they are so much more disposed to criminality as a sex? Is masculine violence a feature of a patriarchal culture and why is so much of it directed at women? If so what are we doing about it within the education system? What are we doing to divert men from abuse? Discussions about violence never get to the heart of these issues because they are so disconcerting for us, reaching into dark places where primordial power-play simmers. If we consider just how our law has historically criminalised aggression - how certain types of anti-social behaviour have been targeted, while others have been either formally or practically left unregulated - then it seems that such law is about male patterns of behaviour and about male standards of acceptable conduct. The law on rape and the minimising of domestic violence are the paradigm examples of this perspective; the law is gendered, especially in relation to violence, and the new gender-neutral language of legislation does not fully disguise this fact. It is why we had to go through such contortions to get the defence of provocation to work for women in domestic killings. Women rarely killed in a sudden blind rage; as the law required, more usually their loss of control arose from despair, like the final surrender of frayed elastic. Only now are the courts shifting to accommodate this different reality. Despite the fact that we know that men and women behave differently and seem to act for different reasons, we still watch governments provide universal theories of crime and formulate general criminal laws that are meant to work in a gender neutral manner. We are just not prepared to face the facts of crime. Sex is the most salient variable when it comes to offending. Until women and children get justice in the system, certain special processes are justified, including anonymity for complainants in sexual offence cases and anonymity for children at all times. However, at regular intervals, we have to rehearse the arguments about why accused men should not be given the cover of anonymity in some spurious call for equality. Open justice means anonymity should be used sparingly. The coverage of a rape case at times leads to the discovery that the male accused is a multiple offender, because other women are given the confidence to come forward. Redressing the profound historic failures in relation to women means having to take special steps and the government should be upfront about this. "Gender bias" does include bias against men, and there are cases, particularly those involving child custody, where this certainly applies. The difference is that the majority of men in court are stereotypically viewed as powerful, credible and independent. The men who do invoke negative stereotypical assumptions - homosexual, black, Irish, Arab, vagrant, Gypsy, unemployed - can suffer just as women do. The law is also disfigured by pernicious stereotypes of women. The punitive pursuit of Maxine Carr, Ian Huntley's former girlfriend, who was acquitted of any involvement in the Soham murders, reveals a continuing belief that women have a special, nurturing responsibility towards children. Women who don't fulfil our expectiations of good womanhood are judged by double standards. Increasingly, the arena of political change has moved to the courts, where individual cases become a way of raising wider political issues. As Rahila Gupta of Southall Black Sisters says, "It is as though individual pain is the only point of entry into an understanding of a systemic disorder." Law has become a political space for women that is capable of being used as an engine of change. Some of the most high-profile and important cases heard in the courts in recent years have involved women asserting their rights and testing the boundaries of the law: the case of Diane Pretty, who suffered from motor neurone disease, over the right to die; Diane Blood over the right to conceive using the sperm of her dead husband; the women in the military who were dismissed once they became pregnant. And then we have had the terrible appeals involving sudden infant deaths, such as those of Angela Cannings and Sally Clark, where women have been victims of miscarriages of justice, their mothering called into question. The law is changing but the process is slow and sometimes cosmetic. The old myths and stereotypes of women are still alive, well and being enriched with new cliches; we now have women painted as "ladettes" and binge drinkers to show they were asking for it. What has changed during my professional life is women's expectations. Women are very clear that they will not settle for a system that does not listen to them or take account of their lives; the legal system is becoming wise to that fact. Women have gone through the stage where they did the adjusting; now they expect the institutions to change. The symbol of justice may be a woman but none of us will settle for symbols.