Is it August? Tick. Is there not a whole lot else going on? Tick. Has a politician nonetheless managed to get loads of publicity for mentioning something from the telly? Um, tick.Chris Grayling shows why he is so rated by David Cameron's press secretary and ex-tabloid editor Andy Coulson with a speech recycling some very familiar Conservative themes (Britain is broken, crime rampant, the government to blame, and a culture of worklessness and benefit dependency lies beneath it all) but ingeniously makes itself news by comparing parts of the UK to the Baltimore criminal underworld dramatised in The Wire.Cue, as Grayling must have known, journalists devoting lots of space to debating whether Grayling has wildly exaggerated or captured a public mood; whether (as m'learned friend Michael White argues on this blog) the hard facts actually measure up; whether Grayling understood that in The Wire politicians appear just as compromised, at times corrupt and exhausted as every other agency failing Baltimore; and even what it tells us about how down with the kids modern Tories really are (did Grayling really watch more than the first series? Did one of the actors in The Wire go to school with Cameron?).Sober heads may well conclude Grayling has gone over the top. But what his masters will take from it is that, for a day or two, while Gordon Brown is fending off tricky questions about the release of a convicted bomber to Libya, the Tories have been associated in the public mind with a tough stance on crime and one that sounds sympathetic to the poorest, debate has turned to a topic that usually favours the Tories (law and order), and therefore job done.They may also note that a reference to popular culture turns even the thinnest material (there is no big new policy proposal in this speech, not even many new questions) into a "proper" story, just as any reference to the brilliant Channel 4 show Shameless sexes up a story about benefits (Chris Grayling scored last year by referring to "Frank Gallagher-style parenting" to spice up a debate on welfare reform); and any reference to Bridget Jones (step forward, David Willetts) turns a dry policy debate about family formation into headlines.Using popular culture in this way confers on politicians the cachet of celebrity without the awkwardness of dealing with the actual celebrity themselves (who may have inconveniently different views), allows newspaper picture editors to decorate politics stories with pictures of Renée Zellweger; allows politicians to suggest they are in touch culturally with the rest of us; and may pique the interest of readers not otherwise moved to scrutinise an entire 11 pages of a speech on law and order by a shadow home secretary.What it doesn't do is tell us much about where the Tories are headed on law and order after the next election. (Nor, to be fair, does Labour's response – defending its record and insisting that The Wire's creator had a dim view of politicians – tell us how they would use another term of office). Perhaps that was too much to expect in August. But by the party conference season we are perhaps entitled to something a little more substantive from both of them.