Operation Cotton was, in the words of one senior Metropolitan police detective, a "concept job". It started not with a crime which needed solving, but with a wide-ranging plan dreamed up by an imaginative undercover officer in the summer of 1991.The aim was to breach drugs gangs' security, which made it almost impossible to use street dealers to track down the barons. The detective reasoned that investigating the money laundering end of a drug-trafficking network made the chances of a breakthrough higher. So police went into the money laundering game themselves. In 1993, a front company was set up with London offices and bogus accounts filed at Companies House, using accountants guaranteed immunity from prosecution. Covert cameras were set up to film transactions and police surveillance teams were ready to track the "customers" after they left. All that remained was to drum up business. In October 1993, the officer who came up with the plan travelled to Spain to meet Joe Wilkins, a police informer and convicted drug trafficker. Wilkins told police that Christopher Finch, now 55, a Gibraltar-based lawyer, "represented a number of people... involved in drug dealing". Posing as a financial adviser, the detective met Mr Finch at a restaurant in Marbella, at White's hotel in Gibraltar and in London. Promised a commission for any money-laundering business he brought in, the lawyer told the policeman that one of his clients was involved in "tobacco smuggling" and wanted to transfer some money. Police believed the reference to tobacco was a euphemism for drug dealing. Some 48 hours later, £161,000 was handed to the company for police to launder. After a few more days a further £34,000 arrived and more followed. The money was brought to London in suitcases, then transferred to a Gibraltar bank account by the undercover police. In July 1997, Mr Finch introduced police to Plinio Bossino, 63, of Streatham, south London, who owned a bureau de change in Gibraltar. An undercover officer pretended to be interested in buying the business. Mr Bossino allegedly told her that he understood she was interested in the "other side" of the business, commenting that its legitimate work was just a camouflage. Police alleged the businessman said he had £3.5m in Britain that he wanted to "bring over," adding that the "biggest money was in drugs". Over the next three weeks, three payments totalling £344,000 were cleaned up by police and returned to Gibraltar. A total of £15m would be handled this way. Eventually both Mr Finch and Mr Bossino were lured to London, where they were arrested in August 1998. Police also arrested Thierry Leclerc, 52, a caretaker who lives in Hampstead, north London, and claimed he was Mr Bossino's "trusted lieutenant". Mr Finch, Mr Bossino and Mr Leclerc went on trial at Southwark crown court in south London charged with supplying cannabis and laundering money. Seven other men went on trial alongside them, charged solely with money laundering. Operation Cotton had already secured the Met a number of successes, including 21 convictions for drug smuggling. But in these triumphs, there had been evidence of drugs being supplied. The case against the 10 men rested solely on evidence of money laundering. Yesterday, when Judge George Bathurst-Norman threw out the case against the 10 men, he also tore into the legality of the police's decade of undercover work. He lambasted police for "actively soliciting" crime, making an "exceptional offer" to the defendants, and said both Mr Finch and Mr Leclerc had been entrapped. He also questioned why no effort had been made to check the accuracy of the police source, Wilkins, who was an escaped convict. The judge found that Mr Bossino was "already engaged in money laundering" when approached by police "although the nature of the source of the funds was unclear". He had therefore not been entrapped although other failings in the investigation meant that proceedings against him should also be stopped. The Met's hierarchy, smarting from the assault on its officers' competence and judgment, now acknowledges that it was a "cutting edge" operation which pushed at the boundaries of police work. Scotland Yard plans to approach the attorney-general to challenge yesterday's ruling, fearing that the judge's comments could threaten future undercover work. Deputy Assistant Commissioner Bill Griffiths said: "The judge's recent ruling is one which has serious implications for all aspects of undercover policing. It is our own view that the officers did not break the law." An officer with knowledge of the case, who must remain anonymous to protect his security, insisted that even without the sting, money would still have been laundered. "It is happening out there now," he said. "Unless we got involved with them ourselves, we would not have known about them. [But] it would have happened anyway." Police accept that the defendants who walked free yesterday will not be brought back to trial. The daring and imagination of that undercover officer's original concept is not in doubt. But a bit of blue skies thinking has landed the Met with its most painful embarrassment for a long time.