London Underground staff who were the first at the scene of the tube bombing between Kings Cross and Russell Square on 7 July, 2005, have spoken of their "devastation" that they were unable to radio for help while they waited almost an hour for the emergency services to arrive at the bombed carriage.Gary Stevens, the duty station manager at Russell Square station, today told the inquest into the deaths of the victims of the bombings that he would have given up "a year's salary" to have had a functioning radio to alert paramedics of the scale of the disaster he encountered on the Piccadilly Line train.26 people, half of all those who died on July 7, were on the Piccadilly line train.Having ventured into the tunnel after the train driver and a number of dazed passengers stumbled along the track to safety, Stevens had encountered a scene of carnage in the carriage, but was unable to radio for help because the system used by London Underground at that time did not work in deep tunnels.He had to send a colleague back along the track to the station, a 10-12 minute walk, to appeal for help while he stayed in the carriage largely alone with the dead and wounded, without a first aid kit or even a torch."I was devastated that I couldn't offer more assistance," he told Lady Justice Hallett, the coroner. All I could do was speak to people, try to reassure them that help was on its way. I was on my own down there for a considerable amount of time."He said that colleagues used blankets and sheets from a nearby hotel to carry the wounded from the carriage. He made at least five trips to the platform helping carry to carry casualties."Every time we went back we asked, is there any more assistance? They are not here yet? But then we realised that we had to go back and help the others that were still there."The inquest has already heard that the emergency services were delayed because of a mistake over the location of the bomb. They did not arrive until approximately 9.45am, 55 minutes after the explosion.Simon Cook, Stevens's opposite number at Kings Cross station, got to the train from the opposite direction. He told the inquest that the two men had encountered each other in the shattered carriage, but that he too had been frustrated at how little help he was able to offer other than reassurance."It makes me feel quite uncomfortable reflecting [on the incident] because I actually couldn't give much help."Earlier, a scientist who lost a leg in the bombing described the attack. Professor Philip Patsalos told the inquest: "I was shaking, I remember seeing my brain, my skeleton. I could see peculiar things."I remember thinking to myself, 'when is this going to finish?' It finished soon afterwards – it probably only lasted a few seconds, but it seemed like eternity."I felt down with my left hand my left leg, which is actually the leg that was particularly damaged as it was closest to the bomb. It was rather mushy and I thought, 'that's not good', and I started thinking to myself, 'I've got to stay alive, I'm going to die here'."And as time went on I thought, 'OK, I must survive, I must not die and if I need to spend the rest of my life in a wheelchair, so be it'."He tried not to panic to avoid further stress. "I stayed calm and breathed in as slowly as necessary. My number one priority, as I could not do anything for anybody else, was to stay alive." Patsalos was taken to the Royal London hospital in Whitechapel, east London.He lost his left leg but his badly injured right leg was saved by surgeons.Patsalos said he did not tell people that he had a prosthetic limb, and some colleagues assumed he just had a knee or hip problem."I think I've dealt with it by being in denial in a way," he said."I've tried very hard to move forward and be positive, and try to fit into normal life and my environment, and I think I've coped very well."He added: "How I survived, I don't know. Somebody saved me... I'm grateful."