A nine-year-old girl whose body was discovered in a lorry might have been sexually assaulted, police said today.Stacey Lawrence, from the West Midlands, was found strangled at a lorry park on the A605 near Warmington, Northamptonshire, on Saturday.The body of her mother's long-term partner, Darren Walker, 40, also from the West Midlands, was found hanging in nearby woodland. Detectives are treating the case as a murder and suicide.Yesterday, police said the initial postmortem results indicated that she had not been sexually assaulted.But today, Detective Chief Inspector Tricia Kirk, of Northamptonshire police, said there were red marks found on the body to indicate that she was sexually assaulted, and the cause of these were not an infection or a skin condition.Kirk said police "cannot rule out now that there was some sexual touching involved in this incident".She added: "Mr Walker has a history of domestic incidents with his wife, who's currently in the process of divorcing him."She said Walker had a caution for actual bodily harm in 2006 and police were trying to trace three of his previous partners in the West Midlands region. A family computer has been seized as part of the investigation.Kirk said today that Stacey's mother, Roxanne, was "devastated". Stacey was a popular girl with a broad imagination who loved animals and was hoping to be a zoologist when she grew up, she said.Kirk said Walker had been seeing Stacey's mother for about a year. "The picture we get of the family is that there was never any cause for concern with his relationships," she said.If there were ever any arguments between the children, Walker took a "back seat" and would not get involved.It is understood that Stacey had accompanied Walker as he made deliveries to Spar stores in Norfolk on Friday as a holiday treat. Police said the lorry left the depot in Willenhall at 4am on Friday and headed straight for Great Yarmouth in Norfolk.After making deliveries to Spar stores in the county, it was returning to the West Midlands when it stopped just outside Peterborough at about 3pm.It arrived in the layby in nearby Warmington, near the Cambridgeshire border, shortly after 3.35pm. The lorry was later found on Saturday, unlocked, next to a busy rural road, with the curtains in the cab drawn.Kirk said Stacey had regarded the trip as a treat and her mother had no concerns prior to her death.It is believed that Stacey's mother had been in a relationship with Walker for at least a year. Kirk said the child's mother was comfortable with her being in his company and there had been no issues or concerns raised by family members.It is understood that Walker was originally from the West Bromwich area. He had been an employee at AF Blakemore and Son Ltd, which delivers goods to Spar stores across the Midlands.A statement released on behalf of Spar said: "We are deeply saddened by a tragic event which has been reported to us this weekend. We will, of course, be offering the police our full support in their inquiry."Detectives were alerted after the truck's owners reported the vehicle missing on Saturday afternoon. The Spar lorry was tracked down to the lorry park, using GPS technology that pinpointed its precise location.Officers tried to resuscitate the girl, but were unable to do so. Within minutes, they located Walker's body hanging from a cord in woodland. Kirk said a ligature made of black fabric, made from the same material Walker had used to hang himself, had been used to strangle Stacey. Both bodies were removed to a hospital for postmortem examinations.