Hidden beneath brambles 500 yards from Haut de La Garenne, a former children's home in Jersey, the dark chambers of a Nazi war bunker have become the centre of an ongoing investigation into torture and sex abuse.The shelter, which lies at the foot of a squat grey lookout tower on a cliff edge above the idyllic St Catherine's Bay, was used as a hideaway to attack children living at the home, victims have told police.Yesterday deputy chief officer Lenny Harper, in charge of the investigation, said the bunker may have been the scene of "serious sexual crimes". Six witnesses have reported abuse there and police expect to find "evidence to corroborate the accounts".Sniffer dogs, trained to detect blood and human material, were due to search the bunker yesterday evening ahead of forensic teams. The bunker has several underground rooms which were used by the German occupiers during the war.The shift of focus comes as new pictures emerged of two cellars at Haut de La Garenne where 65 milk teeth were found. Harper said 39 of the teeth had already been sent to the UK for examination.Harper said at the scene yesterday that Haut de la Garenne staff are alleged to have abused residents in the bunker. "We have an allegation of serious sexual crimes having taken place in the bunker." The police officer said there were other pieces of evidence which suggested the bunker had been used for abuse, but he would not elaborate. The search is expected to be concluded within the next few days. Police are probing about 100 allegations of abuse involving 40 suspects at Haut de la Garenne, in Saint Martin, on the east of the island, in the 1970s and 80s.Police have excavated four secret underground chambers at the site, referred to as punishment rooms by some victims, and found shackles, a large bloodstained bath and children's teeth. Three men have been charged with sex abuse offences as part of the inquiry into historical abuse on Jersey.The site was cordoned off as police made final preparations to send the dogs into the bunker yesterday.Harper said he fully expected the animals to show a "reaction of some sort" once inside. He added that the Haut de la Garenne site remains a "potential homicide scene". Police have sifted through more than 150 tons of debris during the course of the inquiry.Investigations started in February after the discovery of what was initially believed to be part of a child's skull. Tests later suggested it was more likely to be wood or part of a coconut. Following the find scores of people came forward claiming they were drugged, raped and beaten.