The most senior openly gay police officer in the UK, Brian Paddick, is to write an explosive book about his life inside Scotland Yard after yesterday announcing his retirement. He leaves the Metropolitan police after falling out with his bosses after he challenged Commissioner Sir Ian Blair's account of the police shooting of an innocent man who had been mistaken for a terrorist.Deputy Assistant Commissioner Paddick will leave his £131,000-a-year job on May 31, more than a year earlier than planned, bringing to an end a career which has been dogged by controversy. He once praised anarchy, was attacked for being too soft on drugs and became something of a hate figure for sections of the rightwing media, who criticised his liberalism and his lifestyle.But it was his action in questioning Sir Ian's evidence over the police killing of Jean Charles de Menezes at Stockwell tube station in south London on July 22 2005 that effectively set him on a collision course with Yard chiefs. De Menezes, a Brazilian, was shot seven times in the head and once in the shoulder by police who believed he was a suicide bomber.Mr Paddick told the Independent Police Complaints Commission investigation into the commissioner's conduct that officials within Sir Ian's office feared that an innocent man had been killed just hours after the Stockwell shooting. Sir Ian has repeatedly said that he and his aides had no inkling until the morning of the next day that the man shot was innocent.Both men are awaiting a report, expected in the next six weeks, from the IPCC into whether Sir Ian told the truth about what he knew about the blunder, and when.After clashing with the Sir Ian over the Stockwell shooting, Mr Paddick was then accused, but cleared, of leaking information about the shooting to a BBC journalist.In June last year he was moved from deputy command of territorial policing to a post involving information management, which was seen as the commissioner freezing him out. It was also a clear sign that his career within the Met would advance no further.Last year he completed 30 years' service, so will retire on a full police pension.His contract was due to expire in November 2008 and the Metropolitan police authority said he was allowed to go early as there was "no pressing operational reason" requiring him to stay. A senior source with knowledge of the negotiations said: "It's at his request. We won't stop him from going early."Last night the De Menezes family claimed that Mr Paddick had paid the price for speaking out. Their solicitor, Harriet Wistrich, said: "It's terrible that someone who apparently is trying to expose wrongdoing can't remain in the Met ... Historically he's been someone who's spoken out against the grain in the Met, and he's continued to do so over Stockwell. It would appear he's been scapegoated and driven out of the force, his position having been made untenable."Mr Paddick, however, refused to publicly draw a link, saying: "That's a question for Ian Blair to answer."Mr Paddick said he was considering offers of work ranging from television to writing a book to lecturing: "I intended to leave once I achieved 30 years' service. It took a bit longer to tie the loose ends up professionally and to sort out what I'll be doing in the future."He became a hate figure for the rightwing tabloids after he oversaw a pilot drugs policy in which suspects were given a warning after being caught with small amounts of cannabis, rather than being arrested. His maverick style exasperated some colleagues, but that style and openness saw him become a folk hero while running the borough of Lambeth in south London, where parts of the community had previously hated the police.Mr Paddick was moved from his Lambeth post in 2002 after newspaper allegations from his former lover that he had tolerated cannabis smoking when they lived together. An investigation ended with Mr Paddick facing neither criminal nor disciplinary charges.As part of his attempt to engage the local community he went on a radical website, Urban75.com, to debate policing. His comments about finding the idea of anarchism attractive angered police chiefs and led the rightwing tabloids to brand him "Commander Crackpot".Bob Hodgson, the chairman of the Met's advisory group on lesbian, gay and transgender issues, paid tribute to Mr Paddick: "When he joined there were very few officers who were out, and the attitude from the Met culture to lesbian and gay officers was very much more hostile than it is now. A lot of that change is due to Brian being a trailblazer from within the organisation. Seeing someone like Brian in the higher echelons gave lesbian and gay Londoners confidence that the Met was changing to some extent."