A Legal case involving the rape of a teenage girl has provided new and disturbing evidence of the difficulties in achieving convictions in rape trials, The Observer can reveal.Rebecca was 15 in January 2005 when, she claims, she was raped by a man in his late twenties near her home in south London. She had agreed to meet him, but says she was tricked into going to his house, where he attacked her.Now 17, she says she did not want to report the rape for fear of reprisals and the ordeal of a court case, but was persuaded to do so by her mother in the belief that the man who had attacked her would be punished. But his trial at the Inner London Crown Court earlier this year ended with his acquittal on charges of rape and witness intimidation.Rebecca, whose name has been changed to protect her anonymity, said: 'You have this thing in your head that because you know you are telling the truth, you think he will be punished. Then when he was found not guilty, I can't describe it. I just felt so let down and like the law couldn't protect me.'Rebecca and her mother, Angela - again not her real name - blame the acquittal on a catalogue of failures by police officers who investigated the case, the prosecuting barrister and the judge. They have lodged a formal complaint about the way the case was handled.'I have always believed in our criminal justice system,' said Angela. 'When something like this happens, what else can you do but go to the police and trust them to sort it out? She wanted to drop the case and I said no, this man can't get away with what he has done. Now I feel I have let my daughter down.'The failure of the police to arrest the suspect until three months after the report of rape, the loss of vital evidence from the girl's mobile phone and the failure to interview staff at a shop where a visibly distressed Rebecca had gone after the attack are among the issues Angela has raised with Southwark police.She has also criticised Crown Prosecution Service counsel for their decision not to charge the defendant with sexual intercourse with a minor alongside the rape accusation.'I know that mistakes have been made, mistakes that may have lost us the case,' Angela writes in her letter of complaint. 'And as much as the officers on the case were always respectful to us and we will always be grateful for that, certain questions have to be answered so that everyone else who has to go through what we went through will get a fair and thorough investigation when reporting a serious, life-changing crime like rape.'Southwark police accepted some of the failures at a meeting with the family and their MP, Simon Hughes, last week. 'This was obviously a desperately sad and awful private tragedy for the girl and her family,' Hughes said.'If the police had done their job properly and the CPS had been more on the ball, the chances of conviction seem to me to have been greater. The police have owned up to their mistakes and locally seem determined to learn every lesson.'Official figures show that only 5.3 per cent of reported rapes end in a conviction. Ruth Hall, from Women Against Rape, said: 'This is not an isolated case. It is typical. Now, because of the persistence of Rebecca and Angela, this is a great opportunity for the police and the CPS to clean up their act.'Rebecca did not initially tell her parents about the rape, only breaking down after seeing her alleged attacker a month later. Six months before the trial, she saw him again. 'He threatened to throw acid in my face if I took it to court.'Nearly two years on from the rape, she describes the court case as 'devastating', but says the experience has made her stronger. 'In [the courtroom] they suggested I was a liar, that I wasn't raped, that I asked for money,' she says. 'To talk in that detail and tell the truth and bring up a memory you don't want to and for someone to tell you that you are lying [is very difficult].'Malcolm Tillyer, borough commander of Southwark police, admitted that mistakes were made and said he had ordered a fresh review of the case.Rape and the courts80 per cent of rape charges fail to get past an investigation5.3 per cent of reported rapes in the UK end in conviction0.86 the percentage of reported rapes that end in conviction in Gloucestershire13.79 the percentage for Northamptonshire1 in 20 the proportion of women who have been raped at least once since the age of 16, according to a survey in 2000