A man who ran an illegal arms factory converting replica submachine guns into lethal weapons was today sentenced to life imprisonment, with a minimum term of 11 years.At least eight people, including Michael Dosunmu, a teenager, were killed by weapons converted by Grant Wilkinson in a shed in Berkshire.Dosunmu was shot by mistake as he slept in his bed in Peckham, south London. Another of Wilkinson's guns was used to murder PC Sharon Beshenivsky in a robbery three years ago in Bradford.Wilkinson, 34, was convicted yesterday at Reading crown court of buying replica MAC-10 submachine guns and converting them to fire. Police said his operation was one of the largest they had ever discovered. They believe it produced 90 guns which were responsible for a fifth of shootings in the capital over two years.Wilkinson bought the replicas claiming to be involved in the making of a James Bond movie. Forensic scientists have linked his weapons and bullets he made to 52 shootings across Britain including nine murders.Detective Chief Superintendent George Turner, who led the Thames Valley police investigation, said: "There can be no underestimating the impact of Wilkinson's actions - his conversion of imitation weapons allowed criminals to arm themselves with guns capable of killing and maiming people. We have significantly disrupted an organised crime group that had been supplying large quantities of automatic weapons and ammunition into criminal networks."Wilkinson paid £500 for the replica MAC-10s, which are made in the UK. After conversion, they were sold for £2,500, including ammunition. It is believed middlemen sold them on to criminal gangs.Wilkinson bought the replicas from Sabre Defence Industries, which had supplied previous Bond movie productions. Using the false name Wilson, he bought 90 guns and ammunition in batches and paid £55,000 in cash.Sabre director Guy Savage became suspicious of Wilkinson, who he said was "desperately disorganised", and secretly took his photograph on his mobile phone. The picture was handed to police. Savage told the court: "He was acting in a way that made the hair on the back of your neck stand up."The gun factory was discovered by chance. Wilkinson did his work in two garden sheds behind a derelict property in Three Mile Cross, near Reading.One shed was used as a workshop and the other was sound-proofed as a firing range for testing. Police were called in July 2007 after tenants in a nearby house came across the sheds.Officers discovered expensive industrial equipment used to smelt and cut metals. They found 27,700 spent cartridges at one shed and another site. The cartridges had been bought from gun clubs and could be reloaded.Police had already started to link several of the shootings, and when the sheds were reported they made the connection within a few days.Dosunmu was sprayed with bullets from a MAC-10 after his killers mistook him for his older brother, whom they had intended to kill in a criminal feud.Wilkinson used his profits to dine at upmarket restaurants and stay at hotels. He was convicted of a series of offences, including conspiracy to convert an imitation firearm into a firearm, conspiracy to sell or transfer firearms and ammunition, possession of a firearm with intent to enable another person to endanger life, and possessing a prohibited firearm, namely a MAC-10 submachine gun. A second man, Garry Lewis, was cleared of all charges.The use of MAC-10s had previously been rare. Police say even their own firearms officers have difficulty using a MAC-10 accurately.Turner said: "It is clear that the usage in crimes in the UK of MAC-10s can be directly linked to the factory."Of the 90 replicas bought by Wilkinson, police fear that all were converted. Eleven were found at the factory or nearby, and 39 were recovered after police investigations. Police yesterday offered a £10,000 reward for information leading to the recovery of the outstanding 40 weapons. It is feared most of them are in the hands of London gangsters.Claudia Webbe, of the Trident independent advisory group, which monitors the way police investigate shootings involving black teenagers in London, said: "The availability of these weapons is clearly fuelling violence on our streets."