Three men who were attempting to smuggle 1,554kg of high-grade Colombian cocaine worth more than £500m into the United Kingdom will be sentenced next month for their part in a plot which would have seen large quantities of the drug flooding British streets.The men were arrested on board a 60ft ocean-going yacht, Dances With Waves, off the coast of Ireland in November last year. The vessel had been tracked from the Caribbean by Britain's Serious and Organised Crime Agency and the drugs haul set a record for such seizures.It had been detected by spy satellites in the US and was tracked for a month as it made its way across the Atlantic. The US Drug Enforcement Agency initially believed the illicit cargo was sub-machine guns. Four international police forces took part in Operation Seabight, which foiled the plot.Philip Doo and David Mufford, from Devon, and Christopher Wiggins from Estepona in the Costa del Sol, face life in prison after admitting their roles in smuggling the drugs, believed to have been destined for the UK in time for Christmas.They were arrested as the yacht foundered in high seas near Cork. It had been battling with high waves for 30 hours and had suffered engine trouble. The three men gave themselves up without a struggle. The cocaine - 75 bales each weighing 25kg - was packed in a storage room.Mufford, 44, yesterday admitted possession of cocaine with intent to sell or supply during a brief hearing in Cork circuit criminal court, in the Irish Republic. Doo, 52, and Wiggins, 42, with an address at Mirador de Costalita, Estepona, Malaga, pleaded guilty to the same charge last week. The three, who face from 10 years to a maximum of life imprisonment, will be sentenced on 8 May. The vessel had been tracked from waters off Trinidad by Soca and Europe's anti-drug trafficking agency Maritime Analysis and Operations Centre - Narcotics, based in Portugal, before Irish officials moved in. Irish navy, gardaí and customs swooped on the boat. Elite members of Ireland's naval service boarded the stricken vessel amid fears it was about to overturn in storm force winds.Under armed guard, the crippled yacht was sailed to Castletownbere, west Cork, where the plastic-wrapped bales that filled the yacht's hull were unloaded and stacked on the quayside.Ireland has become a favoured drop-off point in international drug smuggling routes from South America and west Africa to Britain and Europe. Local fishermen said last year that they were not surprised by the haul. Sean O'Driscoll said his trawler had twice caught bales of drugs lying on the seabed. The seizure was the result of an operation over a number of weeks. One Garda officer said: "This was, in fact, not a very sophisticated drug-smuggling operation."Just 16 months earlier Irish authorities seized a previous record 1.5 tonnes of cocaine - valued at a record £323m at the time - after an elaborate smuggling scam was foiled in the same part of the country. Three English men were jailed for a total of 85 years after being found guilty of smuggling cocaine into the country. A fourth man, who pleaded guilty, was sentenced to 10 years in prison.