When the justice secretary, Ken Clarke, faced his Conservative and tabloid critics about his plans to send fewer people to jail, he told them "prison cannot continue to be simply an expensive way of giving communities a break". The phrase had deliberate echoes of Douglas Hurd's famous nostrum in a 1990 white paper that "prison is an expensive way of making people worse".Clarke, after being accused by a journalist last night of betraying this year's Tory manifesto on law and order, described Hurd as a "truly liberal Conservative home secretary in Thatcher's government". He went on to make clear that he regarded Hurd as his oldest and closest political friend and that his hopes of ending the criminal justice arms race are firmly within Tory traditions.Hurd was the last Conservative home secretary to cut the prison population. His successor, Michael Howard, who ushered in 18 years of bipartisan "prison works" policy, yesterday stood firm by his belief that it was the "lock 'em up culture" that was solely responsible for the record fall in the crime rate since 1995.The consultation paper, Breaking the Cycle, ditches not only David Cameron's election campaign pledge to jail anyone convicted of carrying a knife but also Nick Clegg's promise to phase out short-term prison sentences under six months.Clarke's consultation package seeks to reverse the inflation in sentencing that has powered ahead unchecked over the past 18 years. He also aims to bring down the 60% plus reoffending rates of those who leave prison. "We cannot let this continue. Solving these problems requires a radically different approach," the justice secretary told MPs. "I regard prison first and foremost as a place of punishment where people lose their liberty as reparation for what they have done. On top of that, prison cannot continue to be simply an expensive way of giving communities a break. We must give higher priority to getting more prisoners to go straight."The justice ministry impact assessment makes clear that the sentencing reforms will generate savings of £210m a year as a result of needing 6,000 fewer prison places than previously planned. It estimates that the daily prison population in England and Wales by 2014 will be 3,000 lower than the record 85,500 it is today.The ministry estimates say the policy of encouraging defendants to plead guilty early by offering a discount of up to 50% instead of 34% would mean 3,400 fewer prison places needed in 2014/15. Reducing the remand time in prison for people accused of minor offences who would not get a prison sentence on conviction will save a further 1,300 places a year.The proposal to offer foreign national offenders the chance of paying a fine and immediately leaving the country for ever, instead of facing prosecution, would free 500 prison places a year.Clarke defended his proposed reform of the indeterminate sentence for imprisonment for public protection (IPP) from Tory backbench charges that he was now prepared to "release paedophiles". He said it had been introduced in 2003 and had resulted in more than 3,000 inmates being held without a release date beyond their minimum term.The changes will see the sentence reserved for those who would otherwise get a prison term of at least 10 years. They will also see a new parole board test for release, reversing the burden of proof so that the authorities must prove they pose a serious risk of future harm to the public to be kept inside. The MoJ estimates this will free 300 to 600 prison places a year.The green paper does not provide a full cost-benefit analysis of the remainder of the proposals, which include measures to improve the credibility and robustness of community penalties by breaking the probation service monopoly and piloting the use of payment-by-results contracts.Clarke hopes to bring about what he called a "important change in the direction of penal policy" by restoring the discretion of magistrates and judges in sentencing offenders and boosting the use of restorative justice and fines where community penalties are now being used.His critics insist that sending more people to prison is the only anti-crime policy that works. Clarke will have to face them down by the time his sentencing reforms reach Parliament in 18 months' time.Main points• A 40-hour working week for inmates. Harder tasks in community and more use of curfews.• Extending restorative justice, reparation to victims and making offenders pay compensation.• Alternative to prison for mentally ill, and recovery wings for those with chronic drug and alcohol problems.• Offer to foreign nationals to pay fine and leave rather than face prosecution.• Private and voluntary sectors to run community punishments, with prison and probation services put out to competition from June 2011.• More discretion for judges in sentencing, including murder and knife crime, but any adult convicted of stabbing due to go to prison.• Reform of indefinite sentence for public protection, reserved for serious offenders with new test for release.• Use of fines rather than prison for breach of community penalties.