It was from the 1960s but it could just as well have been from the 1800s. Two young men, convicted only a few weeks earlier of murder, were taken out of their cells in two fearsome Victorian prisons and hanged with a minimum of ceremony at eight o’clock in the morning.Gwynne Evans, 24, and Peter Allen, 21, were hanged on 13 August 1964, exactly 50 years ago today. Their deaths came quickly and there was very little media interest in their case. Evans’ last moments came in Strangeways prison in Manchester, Allen’s in Walton prison in Liverpool. Found guilty of jointly murdering a 53-year-old laundry worker called John Alan West after a brief trial, they are little remembered today save for the fact that their executions were the last to take place before capital punishment was abolished in Britain.So half a century later, what have we learnt about the thorny issue of crime and punishment, the death penalty and abolition?First and foremost I think we’ve learned that justice does not require a judge’s black cap and hangman’s rope. When the death penalty was first suspended in 1965 and then abolished in 1969, the roof didn’t fall in. During 1964 there were 296 murders in England and Wales, including the murder for which Evans and Allen were hanged. When the gallows were mothballed in 1965 there were 325 murders. It’s true that annual homicide rates then rose for the next quarter of a century, reaching a peak of more than 1,000 in 2002 (when 172 murders were attributed to Harold Shipman alone), but since then they have fallen back precipitously and homicides are now at their lowest level in about 30 years. The overall population has, of course, increased significantly in that time.The argument that capital punishment is a deterrent against people committing murder is one of the most stubborn myths about the death penalty. Global research by the United Nations and numerous academics has repeatedly shown this to be untrue. It’s also very hard to square a belief in the “deterrence effect” with the fact that in the US, for example, death penalty-using states such as Texas have significantly higher homicide rates than states where the death penalty has been abolished.There is no unique deterrent effect in having a hangman’s noose in a justice system, and a large proportion of murders are in any case rush-of-blood killings with little premeditation. What is unique about capital punishment is its chilling finality. Once carried out there is no turning back. A wrongly jailed prisoner can be released, pardoned, and given damages. A wrongly executed one becomes a judicial tragedy.The reign of the death penalty is over in Britain. It’s now a relic of a more violent age, a time when wrongdoers were whipped, put in the stocks or transported to distant countries for penal servitude. We now live in an era where the majority of people in Britain don’t want the death penalty and don’t really think much about it except, perhaps, when they read about a horrific botched execution in the US.Twenty or 30 years ago it was still fairly common for leading politicians to issue calls for hanging to be “brought back”. No longer. In 2011 a public e-petition for a parliamentary debate on the reinstatement of capital punishment attracted little support, gaining fewer signatures than a counter-petition opposing the move. Britain has fallen out of love with judicial killing, recognising its arbitrariness, inherent cruelty and sheer excessiveness.When Evans and Allen took their last fateful walk from cell to hanging room they brought the age of the strong rope, the noose and the 6ft drop to an end. It was August 1964, the Beatles had embarked on their first world tour and were about to define an era. It was the start of the “swinging 60s”, but it was also the end of a far more ghastly form of swinging.