An experienced nanny accused of killing a baby boy by shaking him was cleared of manslaughter today after the trial judge ruled there was insufficient evidence against her.Mr Justice David Clarke said he was "greatly troubled" by the prosecution case against Linda Wise, who denied causing brain damage to Isaac Rowlinson, the infant son of two police officers.The judge informed the prosecution and defence teams yesterday, with the jury sent out of the courtroom, that he would not let the case continue. This morning he told the jurors at Liverpool crown court that there were "no winners in this case"."The loss to the parents of Isaac is incalculable and the defendant herself has been under a cloud of suspicion for a long time," he said. "And that cloud may not lift at once now the case has come to an end."Wise, 47, from Anglesey, who had previously worked as a nanny for a Greek shipping magnate and some minor European royals, was accused of shaking Isaac, then aged three months, when he was in her sole care.Isaac suffered brain damage and had bleeding in both eyes, which led to epilepsy. He had a fatal fit 10 months later, in July last year.His parents, Lancashire police officers detective inspector Paul Rowlinson, 41, and detective constable Lisa Rowlinson, from Penwortham, near Preston, had hired Wise a month before the alleged shaking incident. Neither was in court today. Isaac's mother had burst into tears yesterday when the judge informed the lawyers of his decision.Wise's solicitor, Neil Hampson, read a statement on her behalf outside the court saying she had been obliged to put her life on hold "because of the dreadful allegations made against me"."I have dedicated the last 25 years to caring for babies and young children. I have never harmed a child in my care and would never do so. And I certainly did not harm baby Isaac," the statement added."Despite the allegations made against me I have nothing but sympathy for Paul and Lisa Rowlinson. They have lost their beloved child and nothing will bring him back."Helen Morris of the CPS insisted that the trial had been "properly brought" but acknowledged that evidence which came to light during the hearing affected the judge's decision."He was particularly concerned that given the poor state of health of Isaac, the level of force required to inflict the injuries with which he was admitted to hospital might not constitute a crime at all," she said."Today, the judge has explained that given the way the medical evidence emerged during the trial, he did not feel the jury could be sure that the necessary elements of criminality have been established."Prosecutors told the court that Isaac had become ill after being looked after by Wise overnight. When the Rawlinsons, who have a daughter, now 6, arrived at the hospital they felt she had a "false expression on her face", the jury was told.Prosecutor Nick Johnson said the alleged shaking by Wise had caused the epilepsy, which later killed Isaac, making her "criminally responsible" for his death.