A teenage girl has been found dead three days after telling friends on Facebook that she had a stalker.The body of aspiring model Emily Longley, who grew up in Auckland, New Zealand, was discovered at an address in Bournemouth, Dorset, on Saturday morning.Last Wednesday, the 17-year-old had shared her fears with friends on the website.She wrote: "I have a stalker!!!"Later, she posted: "Someone just called me and I was like 'Who's this?' And they were like 'You don't know me but I know everything about you' and I was like 'How did you get my number?' and he was like 'I'll tell you when I see you' and kept asking me out. So I hung up and they won't stop calling. I'm really scared! Ha. It's a private number as well. Some people need to get a life!"On Thursday, she posted that she was "down and out". Two days later, she was found dead at a bungalow in Queenswood Avenue.An inquest into the death of the Brockenhurst College student was opened and adjourned by the Bournemouth, Poole and East Dorset coroner on Monday.Police described the cause of death as "undetermined, subject to toxicology tests".Two Bournemouth men aged 19 and 17 were arrested on Saturday but have since been released on police bail pending further enquiries, a Dorset police spokesman said.Emily's father, Mark Longley, said she apparently died in her sleep but the cause of her death remains a mystery."It is a huge shock to us, and Caroline [Emily's mother] and I are going to England to try to find out what happened," he told the New Zealand Herald. "She was a beautiful girl and full of life. It is so tragic."Friends of the teenager have set up the RIP Emily Longley group on Facebook and hundreds of people have left tributes.In one message, her father said: "She was a real force for life. We all loved you honey. So much. It is so nice to see she was so loved. Thank you everyone for your kind words."One friend, Chloe Berghan, wrote: "Emily, this is so unreal, I thought I'd be seeing you in fashion magazines modelling for Chanel, you are an amazing, beautiful and elegant girl and were too young to be taken from us. RIP xxx"Emily, who had worked at Topshop, had been living in Bournemouth with a relative for about eight months after leaving New Zealand.She had gone back to visit friends and family there last month and had returned to the UK a month before her death.Detective Inspector Neil Devoto, who is leading the investigation, appealed for anyone who witnessed anything suspicious or unusual in the area on Friday night or Saturday morning, or anyone with information regarding the incident, to contact police urgently.