Two divers who plundered valuable artefacts from wrecks including early 19th-century cannon and German first world war submarine propellers have been ordered to pay heavy fines and costs.Edward Huzzey and David Knight, who dived up to seven miles off the Kent coast, scavenged from sunken vessels on an "industrial scale" and when they were raided investigators found an "Aladdin's cave" of treasures.Southampton magistrates court was told that the pair used explosives and sophisticated cutting equipment to raid nine wrecks over a 13-year period and plundered items worth more than £250,000. The pair, from Sandgate in Kent, were ordered to pay a total of more than £60,000 in fines and costs after admitting a string of offences.Speaking after the case, Alison Kentuck, the receiver of wreck at Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA), said it was a reminder that all wreck material found within territorial waters had to be reported."It is not a case of 'finders keepers'. Finders of wreck have 28 days to declare their finds to the receiver. By reporting wreck material you are giving the rightful owner the opportunity to have their property returned and you may be adding important information to the historic record."Legitimate finders are likely to be entitled to a salvage award, but those who don't declare items are breaking the law and could find themselves facing hefty fines."Among the wrecks targeted by Huzzey, 56, and Knight, 52, was a vessel that sank at the start of the 19th century as it carried cargo for the East India Company.  David Knight and Edward Huzzey, both from Sandgate, Kent, admitted to 19 offences between them under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995. Photograph: Maritime and Coastguard AgencyA spokeswoman for the receiver of wreck said thousands of items were recovered from the pair: including cannon, bowls, figurines, lamps, teapots and ingots of lead and tin. The eight bronze cannon have been recovered by the authorities but other items including some of the first world war propellers have not.Ian Lawrie QC, prosecuting, said: "They [Huzzey and Knight] are very experienced divers off the south coast and operated together. They were actively saving material from the wrecks and these ranged from Chinese artefacts, items from U-boats and 19th-century cannon. Experts have rated the importance of the finds 'very high'."Their arrest led to a number of police officers going to the premises of both gentlemen where they found an Aladdin's cave of items. There was a rich diversity of items and it gives an idea of scale and persistence of the diving that was taking place. The scale of offending is in a league of its own."The cannon weigh 500kg each and Huzzey and Knight used a vessel with a large crane on the back to retrieve them. Some of the material the men took had been sold on, the court heard.Sentencing the pair, district judge Anthony Calloway said: "This is an unusual case and I'm told there has not been a significant matter like this before. But this is a matter that has to be considered on an industrial scale."The judge was told the pair were caught when they reported their haul to the receiver of wreck after seeing a news report about other divers who had been arrested for taking valuable items. They belatedly tried to comply with the law but any findings must be reported within 28 days. They had been operating since 2001.This case is the first time the MCA has brought a case to court for divers failing to declare their haul in time– which breaks sections of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.English Heritage assessed the importance of the objects the pair had taken. Mark Harrison, English Heritage's national policing and crime adviser, said: "We recognise that the majority of divers enjoy the historic marine environment and comply with the laws and regulations relating to wrecks and salvage. This case sends out a clear message that the small criminal minority will be identified and brought to justice."