Cherie Booth told MPs today that knife and gun crime among young people was more common than the official statistics suggest.The wife of former prime minister Tony Blair said that the statistics were particularly poor at reflecting the extent to which under-16s carry weapons.Her comments, as the chair of an inquiry into young people and weapons, follow a series of high-profile teenage deaths at the hands of other youngsters. The latest was that of 16-year-old Ben Kinsella, who was stabbed to death outside a north London bar on Sunday. Booth told MPs on the Commons home affairs select committee that Kinsella's death was not an isolated incident – 31 young people had been stabbed to death in Britain this year.As chairman of Channel 4's street weapons commission, Booth said she had spoken to hospital doctors dealing with gun and stab wounds whose experience suggested that the incidence of such crimes was moving up."The statistics do not acknowledge what is happening to young people under 16. We know younger people are carrying knives. This is almost a new phenomenon - that younger children are carrying knives and, sadly, using them. The statistics are not looking at the right areas; they need to broaden what they are looking at," she told MPs.  "As a parent I am concerned about what's happening when my children are on the street and I know I am not unique in that by any means," added Booth, who has four children.She called for more high-visibility policing, targeting places where officers know youths often carry weapons. And she praised such a project in Hackney, east London. "If young people think they can carry knives and no one's ever going to pick them up carrying a knife then they are more likely to take one out. Whereas if they think when they carry a knife that's going to be detected, that may well make a really big difference," she told MPs.Many youngsters said they carried knives for protection, and it was important the message got out that it was not a protection at all.She agreed that knives had become "lethal fashion accessories", adding that the word "respect" was bandied about by youngsters as a "distortion" of what her husband had meant when he created his so-called "respect agenda"."We have to take the glamour out of this. We have to tell young people the way to get respect - That is a word you hear a lot, but not in the way the government's respect agenda means it, but as a distortion of it," she said.Asked what she would do if she was home secretary for a day, Booth said she would "take the glamour" out of crime and create a highly visible police presence.Dominic Grieve, the shadow home secretary, said that Booth's comments were "a sad indictment of 10 years of failure. Tony Blair promised to get tough on crime and its causes but failed to do so. Under Labour drugs use, alcohol abuse and family breakdown have increased, fuelling crime, especially violent crime."Grieve - who replaced David Davis when the latter stood down to fight a byelection on civil-liberties issues – promised: "Conservatives would deploy more police on the streets to catch and deter violent offenders, ensure more prison places so that serious violent offenders who should be in jail are in jail and tackle the long term causes of crime which lead to so much tragic violence."