So Anjem Choudary has been found guilty of supporting Islamic State and could face up to 10 years behind bars. Many will be celebrating, and while it is surely good news, for me it’s seven years too late.When I first met Choudary in 2009 he barely registered my existence. I was the stepbrother of his latest convert and he’d been told that I wanted to make a documentary about him. I was a curious, scruffy West Country lad carrying a crummy-looking camera and probably gave the impression that I didn’t know what I was doing (I didn’t have a clue, and had even less of an idea of where I was).Revealed: how Anjem Choudary influenced at least 100 British jihadis My stepbrother Rich Dart had taken me to a “dawah stall” in Walthamstow, which I soon judged was code for “let’s stand around with some provocative handmade signs and infuriate as many passers-by as possible”. Choudary had invited any kind of media that would come, but I wasn’t anybody important, so all I got was a nod, which I interpreted as permission to film.Rich had converted to Islam under Choudary and very quickly become one of his favoured proteges, taking pride of place in the background of televised interviews; his treasured white convert. Rich and I had grown up together in a seaside town in the south of England, but grew apart in our 20s. It was with the news of his conversion that I set out to make the film My Brother the Islamist.      Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest   ‘When I suggested he was responsible for radicalising and brainwashing my brother and countless others, he said, ‘Maybe some brains need washing’.’ Photograph: James AppletonIn those early days it seemed that Choudary had a monopoly over every thought and action performed by Rich. Could he spend time with family at Christmas? Absolutely not. Could he spend time with me? Yes, but only for the purposes of spreading the word of Islam. Is the UK government evil? Of course. Should he fight and die for Islam? Absolutely.In 2013 my stepbrother became a convicted terrorist – I watched on from the public gallery in the Old Bailey as he pleaded guilty to planning to join the Pakistani Taliban for terror training. It was after this moment that my relationship with Choudary really began.I resented what he stood for and what he had done to Rich, but I wanted to figure him out, and I knew I had to set the bitterness aside if I was to understand.I engaged him with a smile, humoured his one-upmanship and absorbed his cocky jibes; which were always delivered with a David Brent-esque glance across to his entourage, who invariably beamed back approvingly. Choudary was a man who thrived on attention, and who really believed in the hatred and twisted ideology he espoused.For a while I employed the unorthodox tactic of challenging him to an arm-wrestle whenever we met; he would always accept with bravado, but never actually did it. When I pushed the matter he uncharacteristically snapped and told me I was a massive joke.Anjem Choudary was a leader. His conviction will damage terror networks | Raffaello Pantucci He always denied having had anything to do with my stepbrother’s plans to go abroad, but when during an interview I suggested he was responsible for radicalising and brainwashing him and countless others, his response was typically brazenly revealing (and more than a little creepy): “Maybe” he said, “some brains need washing.”Therein lies the problem.Choudary has been washing brains for decades. While he may well have stopped short of actually facilitating travel to jihadist camps, or more recently to the so-called Islamic State, he has always remained free to poison the minds of young vulnerable men and women, boys and girls, free to wind them up and let them go.And the kicker is that this conviction isn’t actually a victory won. One of the biggest obstacles in the fight against terrorism is the problem of radicalisation in our prisons We are still powerless to stop Choudary and others like him. One of the biggest obstacles in the fight against terrorism is the problem of radicalisation in our prisons – institutions brimming with disenfranchised and troubled youth. You could argue that sticking Choudary in a prison is like banishing a child to a sweet shop.For 20 years he knew where the line between exercising his right to freedom of expression and breaking the law was drawn, he toyed with it, rubbed it in all our faces.The only reason he’s behind bars is because he chose to step over the line. Maybe he genuinely believed that it wouldn’t be long before Isis would invade and conquer the UK and that announcing his allegiance wouldn’t matter too much. Unfortunately for him it doesn’t seem to be working out that way.All that being said, I am glad that Choudary is out of the picture, and as far as I am aware, there is nobody left in al-Muhajiroun to fill his shoes. This is good news for the short term. But his legacy of broken families, lost innocence and martyred youth is a testament to our inability to effectively deal with the threat of radicalisation.