A 14-year-old schoolboy battered about the head with a dumbbell by his teacher was the "leading light" in trouble in his classroom, a court heard today.The boy had been in trouble for disrupting classes nine times before he was attacked by science teacher Peter Harvey at All Saints' Roman Catholic school in Mansfield, Nottinghamshire, the court was told.He suffered a fractured skull after the 50-year-old allegedly bludgeoned him with a 3kg dumbbell after his lesson descended into "uproar". Rex Tedd QC, defending, accused the boy of being a "leading light" behind trouble in the classroom on 8 July of last year.Nottingham crown court heard that the last thing the boy remembered was swearing at Harvey, who replied: "I'll teach you to fuck off."A video of the interview the boy gave to police was shown to the court. In it, the boy, now 15, is slumped on a sofa wearing blue jeans and a black hooded top. The left side of his face was swollen. He said: "I can remember all the class being noisy and rowdy. They were all messing about and there was a girl messing with the blinds. He stamped at her and told her off."She swore at him and walked at him and then some other girls left the class because they felt scared. He said something to me and I swore at him. He said: 'I'll teach you' and swore at me. I can remember being dragged out of the classroom and into the corridor."Another boy, now 15, witnessed the attack. In his police interview he said Harvey acted as if "possessed" when he caught up with the alleged victim. The witness told police: "He said: 'What are you doing, you stupid boy?' He told him to 'F-off' and he got him round the neck."Mr Harvey went mad. He gets him by the neck and collar and drags him out of the class. He was unusually scary, it wasn't normal. It was like something had possessed him, you could see he wanted to kill him, sort of thing."He was dragging him out at such a rate and pulled him across the corridor. He was so angry it was like he had an extra power to do it. He is a small boy but he isn't weak or feeble, but Mr Harvey was manhandling him out of the door."Recalling the attack with the dumbbell, the witness added: "He was just striking him with it and was just saying 'Die, die, die.' He was on his heels leaning back. Blood was pouring out of his face. I thought he was dead. His eyes were open and I thought he was dead."Harvey came out looking calm, like he hadn't done anything. A teacher had his arm around him."The trial continues.