Detectives called her Lara. But no one knows for sure who she was, where she was born or who her parents were. All that is certain is that her tiny body was found entombed in a block of concrete in a garage in Cumbria almost two years ago.She was no more than six months old and had been callously disposed of up to 15 years before by some unknown killer.A man renovating his garage found the body and took the foul-smelling remains for the decaying corpse of an animal. He loaded them into a plastic sack and dumped them into a stream.But a few days later he went to the police and a murder investigation was launched. Yesterday a few more bare and cruel details of the short life of an abused child were unveiled at an inquest in Workington, where the West Cumbria coroner, John Taylor, recorded a verdict of unlawful killing.But still no one knows her name. She will be described as "an unidentified female infant" on her death certificate.One possibility outlined yesterday was that the unknown child might have been left in the wet concrete while still alive.Home Office pathologist Alison Armour told the hearing that an examination of the block showed it had been constructed from two separate pours, suggesting that whoever had killed the child had placed her in the mixture and left her for several minutes. Then he or she returned to add more concrete.Dr Armour said the child had suffered a fractured skull and bruising to her abdomen. She could have been sexually abused, although this was disputed by one forensic pathologist. She had probably been struck in the face with such force that it caused an abscess in her jaw that would have left her in "extreme pain" at the time of her death.There was food in her throat, brought there as she vomited when placed head-first into the wet concrete."This baby girl, aged four to six months, was placed naked, wrapped in a pillowcase, and put into a block of concrete made specially for her size," said Dr Armour."The examination of the concrete block suggests it was constructed between five and 15 years ago. The cause of her death is uncertain. Whether she was placed in the concrete block before or after her death cannot be known for certain.Graeme Wood, 39, found the child and told how he had been clearing rubble from his garage in the hamlet of Barepot, near Workington, when he broke open the block, the size of a large parcel."I just put the jackhammer on it and it split in half right away," he said. "It was the smell that first got my attention. I wasn't quite sure what I was looking at. I thought it must be an animal."John Whitaker, a forensic scientist and expert in DNA profiling, concluded that the child was probably the daughter of a couple both now dead."There is powerful evidence supporting the proposition that Lara is the child of Joseph and Sheila Thwaite and that she is the sister of Anne Chadwick and Yvonne Mahaffy," he said. "However this does not prove the case.Mr Taylor added as he recorded his verdict: "There are many questions that have been raised today to which we have no answer. We have no answer despite these huge efforts made by Cumbria constabulary, and therefore the circumstances surrounding the death of Lara will remain a mystery."The police investigation will of course remain open but I can only reach a verdict on the evidence I have heard."We know that [the child] had been abused in her short life. Dr Armour ... cannot tell us how she died. This may have been caused by violent shaking of a crying baby or smacking her."Despite the fact I do not know the cause of death, I am satisfied by the evidence I have heard today that Lara was killed unlawfully."Anne and Philip Chadwick were arrested last year in connection with baby's death but later released without charge. Yesterday Mrs Chadwick said she did not rule out the possibility that her mother could have had a baby without her knowing. "My mother had my younger sister Yvonne without me knowing so I have to say it is a possibility," she said.