Scotland Yard is set to investigate allegations from a black police officer that he was beaten up by a group of up to 10 white officers.Taiwo Oduntan said that his attackers repeatedly smashed his head on a concrete pavement and that he was left bleeding in a police cell for several hours. In statements seen by the Guardian, he said he was kicked and punched while on the ground and handcuffed, and passed out from the attack. Mr Oduntan, 43, claims he was denied medical treatment after being arrested, in breach of police guidelines, and feared he would die during the attack. Mr Oduntan, a constable with British Transport police for 11 years, was released without charge after Metropolitan police officers were called to his home over an alleged assault by him. A doctor who examined him after the incident said injuries he sustained were consistent with his account of the attack. Two of his front teeth were broken and skin was ripped off part of his upper lip, which was also left swollen. He was left with abrasions and grazes on his shoulder, chest, arm, knee and he was limping. He said his foot was stamped on while in custody in a police cell. The alleged incident in April started when police were called to Mr Oduntan's home in Northwood, Middlesex, over a claim that he had assaulted his partner. The allegation proved baseless. His partner, Suzana Jurcevic, told the Guardian the alleged assault on Mr Oduntan by police was vicious. "The way he was screaming, I thought he was going to die." She also rubbished suggestions that he had assaulted her. According to Mr Oduntan's witness statement, the incident began at around 2am. "Police officers grabbed hold of my arms and I was violently slammed on to the floor. I looked up and saw the inspector smiling. I asked him 'why are you doing this', all of a sudden my head was slammed on to the floor and I felt handcuffs being applied to my hands in the back to back position." Mr Oduntan said he did not struggle with the officers or resist arrest, an account confirmed by his partner. He said that while being taken out of his house one officer who had his hands on the handcuffs started pressing on them causing him "enormous" pain. Mr Oduntan said he pleaded with the officer to stop, but the more he did so the more pressure this officer applied and the more pain he was caused. Once outside the house, Mr Oduntan's witness statement said: "[The] police officer who was still hurting me grabbed hold of my head and slammed it on the ground, my head bounced on the concrete. I felt my two front teeth shatter, my mouth was full of blood, the shock at what the police officers had done made me breathless. "I heard my partner shouting 'leave him alone, don't hurt him...', the police officers continued forcing my head to the concrete ground, I was choking on my blood and broken teeth." "I felt kicks and punches to my body as I was screaming for help. After that I must have passed out because the next thing I remember I was in the back of a police van." Bruised and bleeding Mr Oduntan said he was put in a cell without being examined. "In the cell I was placed on the floor and the handcuffs roughly taken off my wrist." Mr Oduntan believes he was attacked because of his race. He said he is on anti-depressants and has been diagnosed as suffering from post traumatic stress disorder after the attack. He has been off work ever since. Ravi Chand, president of the National Black Police Association, said the allegations of assault on the officer by white officers were the worst he had come across. Mr Chand called for a full investigation by an outside force and the suspension of the officers involved. "The officer is clearly traumatised by the incident which has caused a lot of concern amongst black officers across the country and the black community." A Metropolitan police spokeswoman said an investigation would take place once a full complaint was received. She said that during the incident one of the arresting officers had suffered a leg wound, but could not say how that was caused. On arrival at the police station in Uxbridge, Middlesex, a doctor had said Mr Oduntan was fit to be detained, but not to be interviewed. The spokeswoman added that the alleged victim of the assault, Mr Oduntan's partner, had refused to make a statement. She said Mr Oduntan had become violent and added: "We can confirm that a complaint was made on April 24... alleging assault by the police. The department of professional standards are dealing with the complaint. No officers have been suspended."