Serious sex attackers will receive mandatory life sentences, even if they are first-time offenders, as part of a series of reforms to the criminal justice system, the home secretary, David Blunkett, said yesterday.The measures, designed to prevent offenders such as Sarah Payne's killer, Roy Whiting, from being set free to strike again, will form part of next month's white paper on criminal justice. Mr Blunkett promised reform in December after it emerged that Whiting, 43, had abducted a nine-year-old girl just five years before he kidnapped and murdered eight-year-old Sarah. Whiting had been sentenced to four years for the crime but served only two years and five months. While in prison he refused psychiatric treatment and following his release, he stayed in contact with probation officers for just four months. Although he was on the sex offenders' register and monitored by police, there was nothing to stop him striking again. The Home Office promised to study the case "very carefully" and assess ways of improving the way sex offenders are dealt with. Six days after Whiting was jailed for life last December, Sarah's parents, Mike and Sara, attended a meeting with Mr Blunkett at the Home Office to discuss what could be done. Writing yesterday in the Sunday Telegraph, Mr Blunkett said: "There must be no more cases like that of Roy Whiting, a man sentenced to four years for a terrible kidnap and sexual assault of a child, who went on to commit an even more horrendous crime." He did not spell out details of the proposals, but said: "If someone has been convicted of a dangerous, violent or sexual crime they must be given a long prison sentence - including, in some cases, life - and made to serve it in full. "If there is a recognised risk that they may offend again at the end of their prison term, we need to make sure they are kept under close supervision... The police and probation service must have the powers to monitor such people for as long as necessary." Sara Payne yesterday said: "Longer sentences are definitely the way forward, so I welcome the comments." But she expressed disappointment that there were still no plans for the public to have access to the sex offenders' register. Mr and Mrs Payne have been calling for a "Sarah's law" which would allow this. She added: "I will continue to keep trying to persuade him [Mr Blunkett]." In the Sunday Telegraph, Mr Blunkett criticised the media. "It is very frustrating to have completely contradictory accusations levelled. The first is that we do not have enough initiatives to tackle crime, the second is that we have too many initiatives and that we are failing to tackle the problem anyway. Both are untrue."