The Home Office spokesman (Officials falsely labelled 1,500 as criminals, May 22) is wrong. It matters not how many checks were carried out or how small the error rate. Errors (and not a spun "mismatches") were clearly made and 1,500 individuals were prejudiced as a result. Of course one should err on the side of caution in a sensitive area of public policy, but only if making decisions based on factual information. It is totally negligent to make such vital and potentially life-destroying decisions on incomplete and incorrect data, which should not be beyond the wit of the Home Office to ensure is correct. This gross error is then compounded by seeking to avoid responsibility, an unpleasant trait that seems to be developing within this administration.John Butcher Peterborough, CambsCriminal Records Bureau checks that "err on the side of caution" shouldn't mislead us into thinking they are watertight. Volunteering England promotes wider internal policies for organisations that take on volunteers who work with vulnerable people. Roles should be drawn up to minimise risk - for example, avoiding unsupervised contact with clients where this is unnecessary. If robust internal procedures are in place, then organisations will have a strong second line of defence should a CRB check fail. Christopher Spence Chief executive, Volunteering EnglandThe spectacle of John Reid slagging off his own department before a select committee (Report, May 24) deserves a slot in any first-year management course. It's a variant on a classic business story. An enthusiastic sales department makes extravagant promises to customers without first checking lead times and capacities with the production departments. The production departments then go into crisis mode, prioritising work in response to whomsoever screams the loudest. Service levels - delivery times, quality - plummet. It then becomes the job of a competent chief executive to bang heads together: to require the production departments to spell out in advance what is or is not feasible and what could be achieved with extra resources, and force the salesmen to take on no commitments that can't be fulfilled. Of course, if the chief executive is himself a gung-ho salesman, with no great interest in the operational detail, then you do have a problem. (Professor) David Chambers London Business SchoolWhoever conducts the inquiry into the "unfit for purpose" Immigration and Nationality Directorate should talk to groups like mine. We spend thousands of hours a year attempting to undo messes caused by IND incompetence. I hope they will also talk to some of our clients, such as MB, who, entitled to support, spent 14 months sleeping on the streets and eating out of dustbins.  Wes Drinkwater Chief executive, Coventry Refugee Centre