The parents of Thavisha Lakindu Peiris, who was stabbed to death as he made his final pizza delivery before he was due to start a career as an IT consultant, said they cannot believe that their son has been taken from them.Peiris, 25, who came to the UK from Sri Lanka in 2011, was found by colleagues slumped behind the wheel of his car in the Southey area of Sheffield on Sunday evening after failing to return from a delivery. Police have been unable to establish a motive for his murder.Speaking from their family home in Sri Lanka, his father Sarath Mahinda Peiris and mother Sudarma Narangoda said: "We were devastated and shocked to hear of our son's tragic end and we are still unable to comprehend that he is actually gone."Thavisha was one of the most caring and loving sons a parent could have. He was full of life and always had a smile on his face. Anyone who met him immediately liked him. He was a deeply religious boy who would not even harm an ant."We sent our son to the UK to study so he can have a better life. Now we are left with only a broken heart. We urge anyone who knows anything about our son's tragic death to come forward to help bring whoever is responsible to justice. Please help the police stop another father or mother feel the tragic loss that we are feeling."The murder took place about five minutes from the Domino's Pizza branch where Peiris worked. No money appeared to have been taken.Detective Superintendent Lisa Ray, who is leading the 50-strong team investigating Peiris's killing, said on Wednesday that because the murder was in an out-of-the-way street, it was likely the killer or killers came from the local area.Forensic tests are being carried out on the car, where Peiris was found with stab wounds to the chest; police are also trawling CCTV footage. Peiris worked as a pizza delivery man to help fund his studies at Sheffield Hallam University. He began coursework for the degree while still in Sri Lanka and came to the UK in 2011 to complete his studies, graduating in 2012.Domino's Pizza said it would fund the cost of Peiris's parents and brother flying to the UK in the next few days. Lance Batchelor, chief executive, said: "All of us are shocked and deeply saddened by his senseless death, and our thoughts go out to his colleagues, friends and family. His family being so far away adds to the pain of this tragic situation and bringing them over to the UK is of paramount importance."Thavisha was a very popular employee and wholly dedicated to his job with us which he greatly enjoyed. Customers of ours get to know their delivery drivers fairly well, so this tragedy has hit many people very hard indeed."Ray said:"I cannot begin to imagine the heartache and pain the family will be going through, heightened by the fact they are thousands of miles away."Thavisha's parents had sent him to the UK to study so he could build a successful life, and that opportunity has now been taken from him in the most tragic and brutal manner. Specially trained family liaison officers have been supporting Thavisha's family in every way possible since his death on Sunday evening and will continue to do so when the family arrives in England."I am delighted with the support Domino's have been able to offer to the family. His colleagues in Sheffield and the whole company share our determination to track down the person or people who killed a much loved colleague. Since the appalling events of Sunday night they have provided tremendous support and assistance to this investigation for which I'm very grateful."On Sunday night, his final shift before he was due to start a job in IT, Peiris had asked to go home early as he was feeling unwell but agreed to make a last delivery. Colleagues from the takeaway found him after the person who made the order contacted them saying that it had not arrived.Peiris's brother Pramod said that he was "the centre of our world". He added: "He gave us so many reasons to smile. He was kind and considerate and we were extremely proud of his achievements.South Yorkshire police said a 17-year-old male was arrested on suspicion of murder on Thursday night. He is in custody where he is due to be questioned by detectives.