Scotland Yard's comprehensive reinvestigation into the murder of Stephen Lawrence is likely to end in failure unless there is a major change of heart by prosecutors who are under intense scrutiny after the failure of the Damilola Taylor trial.The Guardian has learned that detectives involved in the Lawrence inquiry have grown despondent about the chances of bringing the teenager's racist killers to trial for serious offences, even though they believe that their inquiry has uncovered enough material to charge between six and eight members of a gang that is thought to have attacked him. The new pessimism is likely to put further pressure on the crown prosecution service which is already reeling from criticism of its decision to recommend bringing murder charges in the Damilola case. Both investigations have suffered from the same core problem - flawed eyewitness testimony. During the Damilola trial, lawyers for the four defendants were able to rip apart the testimony of a 14-year-old girl who claimed to have seen them stabbing the schoolboy, but who repeatedly changed her story. Similarly, one of the key elements of the Lawrence investigation is the testimony of Duwayne Brooks, who was with Stephen when he was attacked by a gang of white youths. However, Mr Brooks has given four different statements about what happened that night. The Metropolitan police has been feeding material to the CPS for the past eight months, but lawyers have highlighted difficulties with every file that has been submitted. Officers now fear that the damage inflicted by previous, flawed inquiries into the Lawrence murder, the collapse of a private prosecution and the weight of prejudicial publicity, is deterring the CPS from pressing ahead. A final decision had been pledged before the end of the month, to coincide with the retirement of the Met's deputy assistant commissioner, John Grieve, who has been leading the Lawrence murder squad for three years. But the CPS admitted yesterday that the decision had been delayed again. "Every time we have been given a deadline, it has been moved," a Scotland Yard source said. "We have proceeded against people with far less than we have got here." Another senior officer added: "Unless someone at the CPS begins to be a little more creative, the decision will be negative." The timing of Mr Grieve's leaving has also caused concern within the murder squad and among supporters of the Lawrence family, who want him to stay. Due to retire six years ago, he has continued his work after three extensions to his contract by the Home Office. A fourth extension has not been offered. Although the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, has said the force will not rest while there is a chance of convicting Stephen's killers, a well-placed source told the Guardian the inquiry was no longer "the favourite topic" of the Home Office or senior officers at Scotland Yard. Mr Grieve's team believes there is enough evidence to bring serious charges, possibly conspiracy to cause grievous bodily harm, against between six and eight members of the white gang that attacked Stephen in Eltham, south-east London, on April 22 1993. Gary Dobson, Neil Acourt and Luke Knight were acquitted of Stephen's murder in 1996, when a private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family collapsed after evidence from Duwayne Brooks was rejected. The case against the two other prime suspects, Jamie Acourt and David Norris, was dropped before it reached the court. Fresh witness statements have given the murder squad more detail than ever before about what happened on the night of the murder and afterwards. This has allowed detectives to cast fresh doubt on the alibis of some prime suspects . The CPS said yesterday that its most senior lawyers and a Treasury counsel were studying the case and a decision would be taken in due course.