Chen Cun Laing left China after a freak typhoon destroyed his fishing boat and left him penniless. Convinced the only way he could earn enough money to support his family would be finding his way to the UK, Laing approached a local Triad gang and agreed to pay more than £16,000 to be smuggled into England.The journey, via Beijing, Ukraine, Slovakia and France, took several months and after arriving in London and applying for asylum Laing eventually found work in a restaurant in Wigan. After only a few weeks he was suddenly kidnapped by members of the Triad smuggling gang who had travelled up from London to track him down. Explaining that he still owed more than £7,000, the gang took Laing to a secluded house in Manchester and began systematically torturing him. He was repeatedly beaten and cut with a machete and on several occasions telephone calls were made to his family back in China so they could hear his screams. He was released only after signing a Triad 'debt of honour' certificate which is considered as good as currency. By signing, the victim agrees that they will be executed if they do not pay. Alerted by Laing's family in China, police tracked down the kidnappers. Earlier this month the five-strong gang, led by He Chen, were jailed for a total of 42 years after admitting a variety of offences including conspiracy to falsely imprison, commit blackmail and grievous bodily harm. Criminal activity among the Chinese community is rarely reported outside the community itself, often leading to the impression that things have gone quiet. In fact, the steady stream of drug trafficking, illegal gambling, prostitution and protection rackets that forms the heart of Triad activity continues unabated. Laing had been smuggled from the same province of China that the 58 migrants who were found dead in a lorry at Dover three years ago had come from. Triads are also highly active in Dublin where there have been four murders in the past two years, all linked to attempts to extort money from the city's fast-growing Chinese student population.UK Community: 247,403 Asylum applications: 4,620 Active criminals: 4,000