A gay couple detained in one of the UK’s toughest prisons are to marry after conducting an illicit relationship in the library.Both men are serving life sentences for murder in Full Sutton prison near York, which houses some of the most dangerous offenders in the country.Mikhail Gallatinov, a convicted paedophile, was jailed in 1997 for the murder of Adrian Kaminsky – who he had met through a gay chat line. He will soon marry Marc Goodwin, who in 2007 was sentenced to life behind bars for a homophobic killing on Blackpool seafront. He kicked and punched to death his victim, Malcolm Benfold, 57. The pair will wed in a ceremony inside the prison next month, the Mirror reported. It is believed to be the first same sex marriage or civil partnership to occur on the prison estate since the equal marriage act came into force last year.A source who visits Full Sutton regularly told the Guardian the relationship was well known inside the jail. “These two guys were on separate wings at Full Sutton and used to meet – and have sex – in the prison library. Then they managed to get on the same wing and had sex regularly,” she said. Prisoners ... are in prison for public safety reasons, not to stop them asserting their civil rightsFrances Crook, Howard League Since submitting their application for marriage, the men have been split up and housed on different wings, the source claimed.Full Sutton has a “Rainbow” group, where gay, bisexual and transgender prisoners can meet to discuss issues and problems. Heterosexual prisoners are also allowed to join the discussions, which are chaired by a prison officer. Though not official policy, health care staff distribute condoms to prisoners who ask for them, the source said.According to the Mirror, the couple gave their jobs as bar staff on the notice of marriage, which was posted at the register office in Beverley, East Yorkshire. The notice, which also describes Gallatinov as a chef, says the wedding will take place at “Sutton View, Moor Lane, Full Sutton” – neglecting to mention that it is a prison.A Ministry of Justice spokesman refused to comment on the marriage, saying: “We do not comment on individuals.“Prisoners are entitled to apply to be married in prison under the Marriages Act 1983. This would take place at no cost to the taxpayer and there is no possibility they would share a cell.”Under the terms of the Marriage Act 1983, all prisoners can exercise their right to marry under civil law in the place of their detention, and this right is reinforced by the Human Rights Act.When passed, the 1983 law was intended to allow heterosexual prisoners to marry their partners from the outside world. The logic was that prisoners should largely enjoy the same human rights as their free counterparts, and that building and retaining family ties can help with the rehabilitation process.But with the introduction of the Civil Partnerships Act 2004 and the Marriage (Same Sex Couples) Act coming into force last year, gay inmates are now legally allowed to marry each other inside jail, causing logistical issues for prison staff.There is no rule prohibiting sex or relationships between prisoners, but prison officers do not allow inmates to have sexual relationships, according to the Commission on Sex in Prison, carried out by the Howard League for Penal Reform.Providing condoms in English prisons is official policy | Letters Frances Crook, the Howard League’s chief executive, supports marriage in prison, saying: “As a general principle, I think that prisoners should be allowed the same civil rights as people outside. They are in prison for public safety reasons, not to stop them asserting their civil rights.” But she said it would be fair for the couple in Full Sutton to be split up, so as not to give them a privilege heterosexual prisoners cannot enjoy. She wants to see prisons build private family rooms where prisoners can meet their families in private. “That’s what they do in Norway, and in long-term prisons in France there are little cottages where families can spend two or three days together,” said Crook. Access to such facilities should also be extended to inmates married to each other, she suggested.It is impossible to accurately assess the prevalence of same-sex relationships in prison, according Roger Ingham, professor of health and community psychology at the Centre for Sexual Health Research at the University of Southampton. He said he had never heard of a gay marriage or civil partnership between prisoners inside a jail, but predicted this would not be the last. “Given the increasing acceptance of same sex relationships in society at large, one would imagine that there are more of these relationships going on in prison too. The authorities will have to respond to these changes,” he said.The Guardian spoke to one man who was recently released after serving a long sentence at a high security jail. He said: “Paradoxically, given that legal and cultural progressions have almost rendered the ‘gay liberation front’ redundant in the UK, the situation in prisons for homosexual men is arguably more difficult now.“Though engaging in consensual sexual activity is no longer illegal, when prisoners do so other institutional sanctions and disciplinary actions are deployed to obstruct, punish and deter. The easiest pretext for the authorities is always to pretend that ‘security’ or ‘good order and discipline’ are threatened when two men are momentarily beyond the panoptic disciplinary gaze of authority – actually a legal necessity since legalisation enjoins that ‘acts’ be ‘in private’, a rare commodity indeed in prison.”