Tomorrow is my last day after nine years as chief inspector of prisons. Over that time, there has been considerable progress – particularly in the quality of healthcare, education and resettlement work in prisons – usually provided and funded by expert external agencies.In 2003, 78% of prison education was assessed as inadequate by the education inspectorate. Last year it was 6%. Mental health in-reach work provides specialist support for some of the most seriously ill prisoners. The suicide rate over the last three years is almost half of what it was in 2003. Resettlement work, which used to be peripheral, is now seen as core business. Those are no mean achievements for a system constantly under pressure. But, over the same period, there has been a rise of 27% in the prison population.There are over 20,000 more adult men in prison than when I started my job. This has meant that, while the quality of services has improved in many prisons, the quantity is simply insufficient to meet demand or need. Only four out of 21 so-called training prisons inspected last year were able to provide enough good training. There are still too many prisoners who can spend most of the time locked up. Self-harm, particularly among women prisoners, is endemic. Four out of five mental health teams said they were unable to meet the scale and complexity of need. Larger, more complex prisons with many more long-sentenced prisoners have become harder to run safely and effectively.This is not by any means a broken system, but the pressures on it, built up over decades, have made it brittle. An inflated prison system at the time of a shrinking state is not a good legacy to inherit.Not only does the Prison Service face budget cuts, but so too do the other departments and agencies that fund services in prison. It is unlikely that prison spending will be top of their "must protect" lists. This could affect not just prisons' ability to carry out rehabilitative work, but also their safety, as regimes deteriorate, prisoners become more frustrated and staff less motivated.The new justice secretary, Kenneth Clarke, has signalled clearly that he wants to reduce the prison population. So far, so good – a welcome change from the "my prison system is bigger than yours" bidding war that has characterised political debate ever since he was home secretary in the early 1990s. We should not underestimate the importance of rhetoric in talking up or down the prison population, and there is the promise of a fresh look at sentencing in the autumn. That is much needed, for the last decade has seen too many bad decisions – including the over-used and under-resourced indeterminate sentence for public protection, which I have described as a worked example of how not to legislate. There are now 6,000 of these prisoners and only 130 have ever been released.There have also been missed opportunities to invest properly in alternatives to prison while public funds were flowing freely. A huge prison-building programme – which has resulted in a 7% increase in prison places over two and a half years – took precedence over swift action on the Corston report, which recommended different and non-custodial approaches for women, and the Bradley report, which called for more diversion from criminal justice of those who are mentally ill. Promised halfway houses and more support for young adults never materialised.The age of austerity has concentrated minds wonderfully, and offers new opportunities to do things differently. But that is not cost-free. Reducing the number of prisoners will require support and resources to be available elsewhere outside prison. The closure of the large mental hospitals, without providing the promised "care in the community", resulted in more mentally ill people gravitating to prisons. That shows the risks of simply pocketing savings. The same is true in relation to prisons. Justice reinvestment is not the same as justice disinvestment.Penal policies over decades have created a prison system that is too big to fail. In order to keep it safe and decent it requires constant feeding – sucking resources from the agencies – and interventions that can more effectively prevent offending or reoffending. Yet it is still unable to provide the focused interventions that are needed. It is therefore also a system that is too big to succeed.But reversing it will be a challenge. There are 85,000 men, women and children in prison. Whatever decisions are taken now – by way of sentencing reform or incentivised support on release – that number is unlikely to fall noticeably in the immediate months ahead. At best it may stabilise. Getting from there to the sunlit uplands of a small, properly resourced prison estate, supported by effective interventions at either side, would be difficult at any time and in present circumstances will be fraught with all kinds of risks, both political and operational. The inspectorate will continue to play a key role in reflecting back to ministers and the public what is actually happening as policies are put into practice and cuts begin to bite.