Mike Presdee, who has died of cancer aged 64, was a sociologist of international acclaim and great personal magnetism. His work focused on the sociology of youth and cultural criminology. He was fascinated by the way in which young people can be criminalised and controlled, and of youth being seen as a problem, rather than young people being the locus of the problems of the system. In later life, he attempted to understand and explain New Labour's neurotic obsession with antisocial behaviour.He was a key figure in the now burgeoning field of cultural criminology, convinced of the impossibility of understanding crime (or any other form of human behaviour, for that matter) in terms of survey data and quantitative analysis. He argued that "numerical life" had little, if any, relationship with "actual life", that there was a chronic split between academic knowledge (the gaze from above) and everyday experience (the view from below), revealed by ethnography and biography. Mike was one of those people who, because of class, ethnicity or migration, are permanent outsiders, who never feel quite at home with the world as it is presented by authority, and who, because of this, make the best sociologists and the most perceptive critics.Born in Gloucester, the son of a telephone engineer, he was one of six children who grew up in a working-class community on a council estate. Aged 11, Mike won a place at the local grammar school. He later recalled his dislike of the random way in which wealth appeared to be distributed there – a world where the middle-class kids "looked different, talked different and had an air of confidence in this, their rightful place, whilst [he] would always be an outsider, an intruder in someone else's world".At the age of 16, he escaped school by joining the junior marines; he recalled how he was "saved from delinquency by becoming a delinquent for them, exercising my vice so that they could be virtuous, a legal delinquent … instead of fighting authority I would fight for it: or so they hoped."He spent six years as a marine commando, part of that time in Aden (now Yemen), fighting the insurrection there against British colonial rule, and encountering many dreadful things that haunted him all his life. Like so many ex-soldiers, he was disgusted by war but was indelibly impressed by the warmth and courage of his comrades. He suffered wounds to his arm and leg and blast damage to his ears and was invalided out aged 22.Unable to find work in the UK because of his injuries, he went to Canada. In poor health and living in wretched conditions, he contracted hepatitis and returned to England and the council estate he grew up in. After his recovery, he was persuaded by a girlfriend to study for teacher training at Matlock College, Derbyshire, as part of a Labour party special-entry initiative to increase the recruitment of teachers. He graduated in 1971 and shortly afterwards emigrated to Australia, where he gained further qualifications and experience as a teacher of English and drama. He returned to England in 1990, and carried out innovative studies on youth, and wrote among other things a series of trenchant attacks on neo-liberal social policies. His last two academic posts were at the universities of Sunderland and Kent, and during this time his career in cultural criminology truly got under way.Cultural criminology was made for Mike and he was one of its chief architects. He was part of a generation of British criminologists entering academia during the post-1960s era of expanded university provision, who no longer looked down the class structure from a position of privilege, gazing with interest, sometimes charity, but always social distance. Rather, they spoke for those low in the social structure, and were aware not only of the background factors of social action but the foreground rush of consciousness which gives it life and meaning.Where traditional criminology mistakes textual dullness and robot-like social actors for objectivity, cultural criminology zooms in on the phenomenal experience of crime, victimisation and punishment, stressing anger, humiliation, exuberance, excitement and fear. It reveals the energy of everyday life, whether in the transgressive breaking of rules or in the repressive nature of conformity and boredom.Mike's Cultural Criminology and the Carnival of Crime (2000) epitomised this approach. A firecracker of a book, it focuses on everything from joyriding to hate crimes, from the criminalisation of raves to sadomasochism, it explores notions of transgression and resistance. It introduces the work of Mikhail Bakhtin, Gilles Deleuze and Theodor Reik and is inspired by the earlier work of Jack Katz, Dick Hebdige and Jeff Ferrell. It is one of the best introductions to cultural criminology and holds students spellbound.Near the end of the book's acknowledgements, he apologised to his friends for enjoying life too much and to his employers for seeming to enjoy work too little. And that was it: Mike was a bon vivant, an intellectual enthusiast, a committed Marxist, a proud father, an inspired writer, a bit of an agitator – a wonderful man.He is survived by his wife Gill and their daughter Hannah, two children, Ceinwen and Merren, from a previous marriage, two stepchildren, Ellie and Nick, and six grandchildren.• Mike Presdee, sociologist and cultural criminologist, born 11 November 1944; died 10 July 2009 