The house where I meet Natasha Peniston has a jumbled, lived-in feel, and the children's drawings on the walls form a poignant backdrop to the tale she unfolds. She says the "safe" accommodation social services found for her doesn't feel safe, and that she cannot bear to return to the council house where, earlier this year, her family were crushed by tragedy. She is thin and says she has lost 13kg (2st) since the incident. She looks younger than her 33 years, except for her eyes, which have seen too much for their time. As we spoke, she was waiting to be sentenced for possessing the firearm that killed her 12-year-old daughter, Kamilah. The trigger was pulled by her son, Kasha, then aged 16. Peniston looks directly at me and says she wants to tell the truth because "as bad as it is, it is the truth".That the death was accidental is not in dispute, but most people, on learning that the mother had allowed a loaded handgun to be hidden in the family's garden, would question her parental fitness. Most people, however, do not live in environments where guns and threats of violence are part of the background. That Peniston made a gross error of judgment is also not a matter for debate, but perhaps it is relevant that she was trapped in a hard, unforgiving place. Last week, Peniston was jailed for three years and Kasha, now 17, received a two-year term in a young offender institution. The judge accepted that the killing was a "dreadful accident", brought about because Kasha had been playing with the gun. Passing sentence, he said he would not impose the mandatory jail terms - five years for the mother, three for the son - because there were "exceptional circumstances" to the case and the pair had sustained the lifelong punishment of the loss of a daughter and "well loved sister". He accepted that both were "horrified and truly contrite".On the evening of April 30, Peniston was on a coach, returning from London. She had left Manchester at seven in the morning to attend a funeral. On the journey home, she had phoned and been assured that her family were well. Home was Gorton, east Manchester, and her family consisted of seven-year-old twin girls, Keira and Kwamaela, 12-year-old Kamilah, and Kasha, who was in charge of his three sisters. Peniston says she had no qualms about leaving her son to look after the three girls: "He thought the world of his sisters and would look after them at the drop of a hat."Then came the call, from a friend, telling her there had been an accident with a gun at home and that Kamilah had been badly injured. The nightmare that had been at the back of her mind was now a terrible reality. Peniston knew there was a gun at her house. It belonged to a man she knew, her former boyfriend, who cannot be named for legal reasons, and it had been buried in her garden for several days. Anguished movementsAs she relives the events of that night, her hands twist around a cigarette lighter in anguished movements. She phoned the police, who met the coach and took her swiftly to the hospital in Manchester. Her daughter was on a life support machine when Peniston arrived at her bedside; she was still alive, but brain dead. In the early hours of the next day, Peniston's birthday, the decision was made to end what was left of Kamilah's life.Acting on her daughter's wishes, Peniston gave permission for her organs to be removed and they were given to five people, whose ages range from 17 to mid-50s. She has received letters from relatives of all five saying that every one of them has recovered.Kamilah, Peniston says, was the life of the family home: "She was noisy, bubbly, intelligent and could do everything - brilliant at school and brilliant with the twins, always helping them with their reading and spelling."Kasha had been through a difficult period and had picked up a couple of criminal convictions, but his mother says he had enrolled at college and was learning to be a mechanic. She says he wasn't a "hoodie", didn't like mixing in groups, and people would compliment her on his good manners, telling her she'd "done really well with him".Her son never had so much as a water pistol for a toy, she says. Friends and relatives would be told not to buy him toy guns. So why did she allow her former boyfriend to leave a real gun at her home? "He said he needed a gun for protection. I was under pressure and said yes. I don't know why. Out of sight, out of mind? If it was there, and not on him, he couldn't use it? I was afraid of him?"Why did she tell her son the gun was in the garden? She rocks her head from side to side. Again, more questions than answers. "Because he was in charge of the house? So that his sisters would not find it? I don't know what was going through my head. All that I know is that I will regret it till the day I die."Why did Kasha get the gun from the garden? "Kasha can't put it into words. Maybe he was enticed by it. All he knows now is that he never wants to look at one of those things [guns], ever again. He misses Kamilah like mad. How many boys of his age would be happy to look after his sister, as he was? God knows what he sees when he goes to sleep. Kasha and me will have to live our own life sentences. He did not mean it. I know that, his sisters know it, and Kamillah is looking down from heaven and knows it."When mother and son were sentenced, neighbours and friends came to court in support, a dozen or so women, from off and around the estate where the Peniston family lived. Many were single parents, struggling to raise children in an area where, according to one supporter, "there's Jack shit for the kids to do".One, a mother of three, says Peniston was as much a victim as a criminal. "She made a stupid decision, but nobody knows the pressure she was under to hide that gun," she says. "Many of the women around here have had a raw deal, people telling them they are worthless, they can only play the cards they are dealt."The trial judge said Kasha knew the calibre of the gun that killed his sister, a .38, implying he was familiar with guns. The neighbour dismisses this. "All the kids round here can reel off the names of top motorbikes and cars. Does that mean they are ever going to own one? It's the same with guns. Of course they can identify them. Guns are never off the telly for a start."These kids are growing up too fast. They get loads of information about things that are out of their reach. They've got no expectations. For most, it's the dole or the jail. It's a shame." She says the judge "and all the others in court" have no idea of the kind of society the people who come before them exist in.Another neighbour of the Penistons, a single parent, says she feels that people like her are judged by their postcode. She says: "When people in authority come to my house, I think they just see me as a social problem, rather than someone trying their best." She empathises with her former neighbour and questions the point of sending Peniston to prison. "Does anyone think she can suffer any more than she is already suffering? Can prison make her pain worse?" Back in Gorton, Peniston reveals that Kamilah was not the first child she had lost. When she was 17, she had a baby boy, Isaiah. He died, a cot death at the age of five months. "After that, I said that if I ever lose another child I'd go off my head," she says. "The pain never goes away. But I can't go off my head, because I'm the only person the twins and Kasha have got. If that gets taken away, because I broke down, there's nothing for them."I don't know how I'm still standing. There must be a God. And, apart from Kamilah, he's the only one on mine and Kasha's side."CounsellingShe says the twins, who will go to live with their grandparents, were in the same room, on the same settee as their sister, when the gun went off. How will they cope? "The staff at the school they go to have been brilliant," she says. "The girls have had play counselling and therapy. A lot of the time they seem OK, but they have lost their sister and their brother."Why did she agree to be interviewed? "I told you, the truth is the truth, as bad as it is. You tell the truth and you shame the devil."