A man who strangled a pensioner to death 25 years ago has been sentenced to a minimum of 19 years in prison. Samuel Dunwoody, 52, was stealing money from the house of Margaret Telford in North Belfast and killed her to ensure there was no witness, a court in the city heard.Dunwoody was caught after police revisited the case and found his DNA under the fingernails of his 68-year-old victim.He had a string of convictions for violence against women.Judge Corinne Philpott QC said: "You killed someone who did you no harm and offered you kindness and you thought you got away with it."Telford was found strangled to death with a ligature at her home in Twaddell Avenue, North Belfast, on 4 February 1988 by a shopkeeper. A pulled-out telephone wire was lying nearby. Telford also had injuries to her face and head.Police recently reopened the investigation. Testing of DNA samples from the victim found a match with Dunwoody, from High Tower, Birmingham. The killer has convictions for assault causing actual bodily harm and battery, including attacking the same woman three times between 1982 and 2009.Police said Telford knew her attacker and let him into the house. After she caught him searching for money, he killed her to ensure her silence.Dunwoody claimed he was in prison at the time of her death, but admitted his guilt on the eve of sentencing.Ciaran Murphy QC, for the prosecution, said Telford was vulnerable and trying to contact police when she was killed. "It was to thwart this that the defendant assaulted her and ultimately killed her," he said.He confessed to probation officers before sentencing, accepting responsibility but seeking to minimise his role, the prosecutor said.Peter Telford, who called his mother good fun, nice and generous, said the family was now able to start a new life after a long wait for justice. "It is like taking a breath of fresh air after holding your breath under water for a long time; you can breathe out," he said.DI Peter Montgomery, of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, said Telford was a widow, living alone and in poor health. "However, Samuel Dunwoody decided to exploit that by murdering a much-loved mother, friend and neighbour," he said."Today, justice has been served for Peggy and serves as a reminder that, although a large passage of time has elapsed, police will regularly review cases and, where there are new opportunities presented, we will pursue them vigorously."