Seven Asian teenagers have been convicted of battering a schoolboy to the brink of death with a claw hammer, it can be revealed today. Henry Webster, from Wiltshire, was left fighting for his life after being repeatedly hit in the attack, which was like something from a "Quentin Tarantino film", Bristol crown court was told. On February 14, jurors found four teenagers – 18-year-old Wasif Khan, Amjad Qazi, 19, and two boys aged 15 and 16 who cannot be named - guilty of carrying out the attack. Nazrul Amin, 19, and two other youngsters, aged 15 and 16, admitted inflicting grievous bodily harm before the start of the case. The convictions can now be made public after Judge Carol Hagen agreed to lift the reporting restrictions she had implemented when the jury returned its verdict.Henry, a 16-year-old who attended Ridgeway School in Wroughton, Wiltshire, suffered three skull fractures during the violence, which happened in January last year. One caused a brain injury that needed surgery. A jury of five women and seven men heard how a gang of Asian males, from Swindon, travelled to Wroughton for the fight, which had been co-ordinated through a sequence of phone calls and text messages. "For those there, it made a sickening sight - the sort you would expect to see in a Quentin Tarantino film, [and] certainly not at a school in a village in Wiltshire," James Patrick, prosecuting, said: Jurors were told that Henry, a 6ft 2in rugby player with bright red hair, was targeted because he "stood out". A message recorded from a phone call between a witness and one of the suspects on the day of the fight said: "There's a big fat ginger kid who wants a fight at the school." The group of teenagers arrived at the school and were heard screaming near the tennis courts, the court was told. "It was to be a fair fight. A one on one - or so Henry thought," Patrick said. "But he had not reckoned on the fact it was not to be one on one. "As he came into the playground he was attacked by a group. He was knocked to the ground … he was kicked, punched and repeatedly hit over the head with a hammer." In a video interview filmed six days after the attack, Henry told police the group had ambushed him. "I heard screams, then I was punched in the back of my head," he said. "I was curled up on the floor but they repeatedly kept hitting me. "Then I felt the hammer hit the back of my head. I know it was a hammer because if it was a punch, your vision does not change. "As I got hit, my vision turned to stars - it all separated, what I could see, because it was so powerful." After the attack, teachers were alerted and ambulances arrived at the scene within minutes. Henry remained conscious throughout the ordeal. He told the court he was still suffering from the injuries sustained in the attack. Khan and Qazi blamed each other for the attacks during more than four weeks' evidence. Khan also claimed that he was under pressure from his local Asian community not to name the teenager responsible. Referring to the two teenagers who pleaded guilty before the trial, Patrick said they had kicked Henry as he lay on the ground. Khan was remanded in custody, while the other three were granted bail pending sentence.