Police are investigating how a modern quilted tapestry made by an American artist who fell in love with the 14th-century Chester cycle of mystery plays was stolen from the city's cathedral.The quilt, measuring 1.8 metres by 1.5 metres (about 6ft by 5ft), shows Bible scenes - plus heaven and hell - performed on wagons rolling past Chester's famous double-decker shops, known as the Rows, and the sandstone cathedral.One theory is that it was stolen to order for a collector and is now likely to be in the US.The textile artist BJ Elvgren made the quilt after making sketches during a visit to the plays, performed every five years, in 1992. It is estimated now to be worth $25,000 (£14,000)."I am greatly saddened by the theft of the quilt," she said yesterday. "It represented not only considerable personal time and love in its making but was a special expression of appreciation to the cathedral and city for the re-enactments of the mystery plays."I hope and pray it can be recovered and again publicly enjoyed. It is well enough known that no one should be comfortable in owning or displaying it."The company formed to ensure regular production of the cycle bought the prize-winning work from Ms Elvgren at a discount price and in 1997 gave it to the cathedral, where it hung in an alcove in a passage close to the visitors' entrance until it was wrenched from its fittings.It has proved popular and postcard reproductions have sold well."I believe that a visitor went back to the welcomers at the door to ask where the quilt was," said Jo Sykes, chairman of the mystery plays company. "The welcomers explained that it was down the passage on the right. 'Oh no it's not,' said the visitor.""I believe it has been stolen to order," said Peter Jackson, former financial director of the plays company, who helped buy the quilt in 1997. "It was unique, like having a Renoir. Anyone trying to peddle it in this country wouldn't stand a chance."I'm very cross. I suspect it has winged its way across to the US by now and that it is adorning the walls of the den of a collector.""It is shocking that this happened in a cathedral," said Det Sgt Barry Brown, of Cheshire police, who is leading the investigation."It could have been stolen to order or may have just been opportunist ... we want anyone who saw what happened to come forward. It's a very unusual case and we are contacting antiques dealers across the north-west to warn them."