On July 5 last year the Metropolitan Police Authority came into being in London. Two days later it announced an inquiry, to be conducted by the Met, to investigate police harassment of my wife Sonia and I.The harassment has in fact gone back more than 20 years, ever since Winston Silcott and I highlighted policing problems on the Broadwater Farm estate in north London. However in the past four years, action against us has intensified.In that time I have been charged and cleared of 17 offences, ranging from public order to assault. Sonia has been charged and cleared of two offences. The incident which led to the launch of the inquiry was my latest arrest. I had been observing a police officer cutting the numberplate off someone's car, an act which I know from bitter experience is illegal because a police officer had previously done that to me. In the course of my five-hour detention in a cell at Tottenham police station, I discovered I had been arrested for sucking my teeth, not an offence (but something which, incidentally, I had not done). During the course of my arrest, a call was made to Lee Jasper, equality and policing adviser at the Greater London Assembly, who complained to Scotland Yard. After that I was hurriedly released without charge and the inquiry was born. Despite our fear and suspicion of the police, I welcomed the inquiry which was conducted by a team of Met officers and headed by Deputy Assistant Commissioner Tarique Ghaffur. I have nothing but praise for the way he and other senior police officers conducted their investigation. We were kept informed throughout and the process of their investigation has been transparent. We know from a series of media leaks that the findings are damning - harassment because of negative stereotyping of me and my family. More than 93 intelligence reports were held about us, some using racist or derogatory language although we were not prominent suspects for anything. And there were three unlawful arrests.  A dirty tricks campaign against us began in earnest once the findings became known. I have a spent conviction for rape from 20 years ago. I always protested my innocence of this crime, there was never any forensic or corroborating evidence and even my alleged victim's family gave evidence supporting my innocence. Because of my profile on the Broadwater Farm estate, urging residents to oppose police harassment, I was a police target and I believe that framing me on this charge was the start of all the subsequent incidents. Indeed the inquiry report states that my previous spent conviction was a key factor in the police harassment. Does this mean that anyone with a conviction, valid or not, is not entitled to just treatment by the police ever again? And do the police consider themselves exempt from the provisions of the 1984 Rehabilitation of Offenders Act? It wasn't long before the Daily Mail dredged up my conviction, neatly juxtaposing it with two facts (that had only been disclosed to Assistant Commissioner Mike Todd and Chief Superintendent Chris Cerroni in a highly confidential meeting at Scotland Yard), namely that I was seeking £1m in damages from the Met and that I had five civil actions planned against the Met, not all of them yet lodged with the courts. More sinister leaks to other rightwing newspapers followed, involving some gross fabrications. We discovered that Met solicitors defending the civil action we have launched had access to the inquiry report as long ago as December 7, long before we knew of its contents. The leaks have also helped to obscure some important wider issues. While the inquiry's aim was not to attribute blame to individual officers, the officers who carried out three unlawful arrests must be addressed in a separate inquiry. To date I have had no undertaking from the Met that this will be the case. Despite everything we have been through in recent years at the hands of the police, my family and I do not harbour hatred and bitterness against them and cooperated 100% with the inquiry. However the dirty tricks campaign, which is aimed at both undermining the legitimacy of our grievances and the extent of our civil action, makes me believe that the Met may not be capable of moving forwards. The inquiry was launched to try to make progress and restore trust. I believe the malicious leaks reveal a battle going on between the reactionaries and the progressives at the very top of the Met. If the adversarial stance between some elements of the police against the black community is allowed to fester unchecked, then all of us will be the poorer for it. • Delroy Lindo lives in north London. comment@theguardian.com