Stooping to new lows in the defamation of those with long-term illnesses or disabilities, the Daily Mail ran an article over the weekend claiming that "a quarter of those claiming sickness benefits have a criminal record". Chris Grayling, the Conservative employment minister, called it a "truly alarming discovery".Only it wasn't alarming at all. It was the same as the figure for criminal records among the general working age population: the UK has around 38.4 million people of working age and, according to the Police Crime Database, 9.2 million of them have criminal records.What's more, when the report on which the Daily Mail story is based refers to "a criminal record", the figures go on to show that a full 48% of these offenders got only a fine or a caution. "Summary motoring or non-motoring offences" account for 46% of the total, ie, petty misdemeanours such as parking and speeding fines, or minor drunk-and-disorderly behaviour, which are not tried by a judge. These are offences that many Daily Mail readers might also have on their record – or indeed, any of us.Being a suspicious type, this made me wonder whether there might be a real story in the report – from the Department of Work and Pensions last November – that the government was much less keen for us to hear about. And, indeed, it seems that there is. What the research actually highlights is a group of people trapped in a cycle of short-term work, making desperate claims for subsistence benefits, and compelled to sign up for various work schemes (which fail them utterly) and more short-term work, as the whole cycle repeats endlessly.A full 19% of claimants studied have had more than 10 jobs in 10 years – and 7% had had more than 15 jobs. These were jobs in which the claimant received a P45 – so by no means all such work was typically carried out by short-term, transient workers.Possibly most shockingly of all, 1,000 "offenders" have been compelled to sign on to 15 or more work schemes – or their benefits would be withdrawn – schemes which claim to help people into work. And another 7,000 "offenders" have taken part in between 10 and 14 schemes. By analysing figures, it took me just half an hour to confirm that:• Sickness benefit claimants are exactly as likely as anyone else to commit a crime• Almost half of the "offences" referred to in the DWP report were minor misdemeanours that only warranted a fine or caution• But, most importantly, we find a group desperate to work, not desperate to claim benefits.Just imagine for a moment a life in which you take more than 15 jobs in 10 years: in between, you have 15 claims for benefits and are compelled, on threat of benefits withdrawal, to sign on to 10 work schemes. Typically, you might work for four months, then claim unemployment benefits for four months.But the report also points out that claimants may not actually receive any payments – and yet they might be classified as receiving benefits. Soon after, you could find yourself on yet another unhelpful four-month work scheme, before the whole cycle starts again.Depending on your outlook, you might conclude that the 600,000 people who suffer this treatment are unemployable. Or you might conclude that we have allowed a culture of short-term, badly paid, unstable employment to flourish, in which those who are most desperate for work – any work – can be toyed with, exploited and discarded at will.With just a beginners' understanding of benefit rates and qualification periods, you would also realise that the social security system left to pick up the pieces for those on the dole is unreliable, draconian and inadequate. It takes weeks or even months to make a claim, leaving many to struggle with poverty because they have no income at all.Finally, the work schemes sucking millions of pounds from our economy are aimed at the wrong target. Remember, these 600,000 are people who are desperate to work: anyone who takes 15 jobs in 10 years is hardly workshy. They must be employable, or companies would not take them on in the first place. Yet they are merely fodder for the millions of short-term, temporary jobs that carry little employment rights or security.This begs the question: why would successive governments aim their fire at people desperate to work, rather than companies making profits from some of the most desperate jobseekers of all? Inconveniently for a government determined to paint those with serious long term illnesses or disabilities as "scroungers" and those claiming out-of-work benefits as "workshy cheats", this research gives them very little to cheer.