A man accused of murdering the Indian student Anuj Bidve was "trying to be all cool" shortly before the shooting on Boxing Day last year, a jury at Manchester crown court has heard.Kiaran Stapleton, 21, of Ordsall, Salford, is facing a murder trial, accused of shooting the 23-year-old postgraduate electronics student in a motiveless attack as he walked through Salford with a his friends on the way to the post-Christmas sales. The court heard that the killer allegedly approached the group and asked them the time, before shooting Bidve, laughing or smirking, and running off.Stapleton, who labelled himself "Psycho Stapleton" at an earlier hearing, admits manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility, but denies murder. However, the prosecution rejected this plea and the matter proceeded to a murder trial on Monday.The prosecution case is that Stapleton was accompanied by a friend, Ryan Holden, who was not aware he had a gun. Two days later, Stapleton had a teardrop tattoo inked on his face, which can signify the wearer has killed someone.A statement from student Anuba Gupta, which was read to the court on Wednesday, described the gunman as "sort of bouncing" as he approached the group of friends.She said: "When he came across the road towards us, he was like hip-hopping, sort of bouncing, trying to be all cool. When the gun went off it was like a plastic bag filled with air and burst, then the sound amplified 1,000 times."Everyone scattered after the shooting, she added. "Someone shouted: 'Oh my God, look at Anuj. He's been shot."Bidve and a group of friends had been walking from their hotel, the Etap, in Salford, to Manchester city centre in the early hours of Boxing Day to avoid the queues for the sales, the court previously heard.On Tuesday, Bidve's friend Nitish Jalali, 22, told a jury that he felt anxious when a man wearing a white hoodie "instantaneously" walked towards them.Jalali asked his friends to ignore him. "He came over and he asked what the time is and we did not respond the first time," he told the jury. He said he immediately asked the same question and finally got an answer of 1.30am from a member of the group on the third occasion. Then he pulled the trigger. "There was a bang sound, it sounded like a firecracker," he added. "Then Anuj fell flat, face-first."The gunman laughed, he added and he described it as "more of a sarcastic laugh".The trial, which is scheduled to last up to four weeks, continues. The defence is likely to call expert psychological and psychiatric evidence during the hearing.