The mother of a 17-month-old boy who suffered a catalogue of injuries and died from a broken back despite being on the child protection register was cleared yesterday of his murder on the orders of a judge.The 27-year-old woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, had already admitted allowing the death of a child at her home in north London last year. Yesterday, Judge Stephen Kramer QC directed an Old Bailey jury to find her not guilty of murder after hearing submissions following nearly two months of evidence.The judge also ordered the woman's lodger, Jason Owen, 36, to be cleared of murder. However, jurors still have to consider a murder charge against the mother's 32-year-old boyfriend, who also cannot be named for legal reasons.He and Owen also deny causing or allowing the death of a child.Judge Kramer said: "After hearing submissions I have decided there is insufficient evidence against [the mother] and Jason Owen for the case against them on count one to continue."The mother will be sentenced on December 15 and faces up to 14 years in prison. Jurors have heard how the boy had been placed on the child protection register with Haringey social services nine months before his death. The mother was investigated for assault but was told the charges would be dropped a day before the child was found dead in his cot on the morning of August 3 last year.A postmortem examination revealed he had a broken back, eight fractured ribs, missing fingernails and toenails, multiple bruises and an injury to the inside of his mouth. He had also swallowed one of his own teeth. The court heard that his back had been broken by slamming him down over a bent knee or a bannister, which would have left him paralysed.It is claimed he was taken to hospital three times in the months before his death after being repeatedly beaten and abused. The child was last seen by social services on July 30 and by a paediatrician two days before his death. Sally O'Neill QC, prosecuting, told the jury that the boy was taken to a child development clinic at St Ann's hospital, Haringey, on August 1. By that time he had eight fractured ribs and a broken back, injuries that would have left him in terrible pain and unable to move his legs. However, the locum consultant paediatrician, Sabah Alzayyat, did not examine the child properly because he was thought to be "miserable and cranky". O'Neill said the injuries should have been obvious: "This could not fail to have been observed by a competent doctor who had examined him properly."His mother had told the jury that she had not seen the child's injuries, and did not know who caused them, but felt she should have protected the boy. The jury will consider its verdicts next week.