A lot of people will be disappointed by the death of Britain's most prolific serial killer, Dr Harold Shipman, yesterday. Prison officers expressed regret. The senior investigating officer of the 215 murders that Shipman is believed to have committed, thought many victims' families would have been hoping that at some point he would give some explanation of why he did it. Now they will never know. There are other people - including those who believe in capital punishment - who will feel cheated by the way Shipman wrested control back from the system by ending his own life. There is a group of virulent retributive justice followers, who must have relished the idea of the arrogant killer being shut away for life in a cage.Shipman's death raises three issues. The first is prison suicide. The death will be investigated by the prison ombudsman Stephen Shaw. It is less than a week since the Home Office announced that responsibility for investigating inmate deaths was being transferred from the prison system to the ombudsman. Prison reform charities rightly welcomed this long overdue move. An independent investigation is as much in the prison system's interest as the public's. Unlike prison officials, Mr Shaw was able - and right - to tell the BBC's World At One programme yesterday that there was a limit to what any prison system can do for a prisoner like Shipman. In the earlier period of his sentence - always the most likely period for a lifer to end his life - he was on suicide watch, but this was lifted when he was transferred last June to Wakefield. Permanent surveillance is not just incredibly coercive, but exorbitantly expensive too. Even Mark Leech, founder of the ex-offenders' charity, Unlock, said he was not holding the service to blame. The second issue is conditions under which lifers are held. This was last reviewed by the chief inspector of prisons five years ago. The UK has more lifers than all other European Union states added together. It is time for another review, not least because last year's Criminal Justice Act will ensure there are even higher numbers. The third issue is "whole life tariffs". Even before last year's act, which will allow courts to impose them, home secretaries had begun applying them to a small core of the most villainous. There are just over 20 inmates who have been told their cell key has been thrown away. It ends all hope. David Blunkett will not be deterred by this, but the disappointment which hardliners are expressing, should prompt him to review his "life means life" approach.