Becky Watts texted her boyfriend: “I love you so much” hours before she was murdered by her stepbrother and his partner in a sexually motivated attack, a jury has heard.In the days running up to her death, the 16-year-old student appeared happy and relaxed, spending hours playing computer games and watching films, Bristol crown court was told.The prosecution alleges Becky was murdered in her bedroom by her step-brother, Nathan Matthews, and his partner, Shauna Hoare. The jury has been told the couple took the body back to their house where they dismembered it and hid the remains in a neighbour’s shed. On the first day of evidence, a DIY store assistant said that on the day after Becky was killed, Matthews took a circular saw to her checkout and queried the price, but bought it after explaining he needed it immediately. The prosecution alleges the couple used the saw to dismember Becky’s body before carefully packaging up the remains.    Facebook    Twitter    Pinterest  Becky Watts’ step-brother Nathan Matthews shops for circular saw – videoVideo footage released by the court shows Matthews, dressed all in black and wearing a beanie hat, carefully choosing a saw and then completing the purchase at the checkout.Matthews, a 28-year-old fast-food restaurant worker and former territorial army soldier, and Hoare, 21, deny conspiracy to kidnap and murder. The court was told that Becky last saw her boyfriend, Luke Oberhansli, on 17 February, two days before she was killed. In a statement read in court, Oberhansli said the teenager seemed happy and carefree.He said that in the early hours of 19 February she sent him the affectionate text and when he could not contact her later he went to her house in Bristol where she lived with her father, Darren Galsworthy, and her step-mother, Anjie. He said it was unusual for Becky not to reply to his text messages.Oberhansli, 17, said Hoare answered the door. “I asked if Becky was there. She asked Anjie, who replied that she didn’t think so.” According to the prosecution, by that time Becky was dead and her body hidden in the boot of Matthews and Hoare’s car. Oberhansli said that Hoare seemed “OK” when he spoke to her.The jury heard for the first time on Thursday that Matthews had admitted the manslaughter of Becky, dismembering her body and possessing two stun guns. He told police he equipped himself with a stun gun, handcuffs and mask and went to Becky’s home intending to “teach her a lesson” because he believed she was selfish and treated his mother badly. He claimed he had pounced on her wearing a mask but it slipped as he struggled her so he strangled her. He insisted Hoare knew nothing of the killing or the aftermath. William Mousley QC said it would be up to the jury to decide if Matthews was guilty of murder rather than manslaughter and argued that it was “ridiculous” to suggest Hoare was “in blissful ignorance” of what was going on.A postmortem found Becky had been suffocated, struck in the neck with a screwdriver and, after she died, stabbed 15 times in the abdomen, the jury heard. Matthews and Hoare are said to have had a shared interest in kidnapping and sex with petite teenage girls. Store assistant Kelly Lee told the court that on 20 February a man bought a circular saw from a B&Q in Bristol. He questioned the price – £80 – but Lee said: “The customer said he needed it for today … He was quite happy to pay the price that was showing.” A next-door neighbour of Matthews and Hoare, Sarah Webb, said the couple were usually “very quiet” but described hearing noises coming from their house on a day around the time of the killing. She said: “There was lots of running up and down the stairs very, very quickly, banging, slamming doors, scraping, furniture being moved, a suitcase being rolled across a wooden floor which was upstairs. There was one voice at one point, a man’s voice. He said one single word, I couldn’t work out what it was.” Webb told the court that Hoare was “very withdrawn and very shy”. She said: “When I spoke to her she wouldn’t reply, she would look away. I may be a little biased but I took these things to mean she may be in an abusive relationship.” The jury also heard that Matthews had appeared to assist in the search for Becky after she went missing, including choosing a suitable picture to help in the missing person appeal. As well as denying murder and conspiracy to kidnap, Hoare has pleaded not guilty to perverting the course of justice, preventing a lawful burial and possessing a prohibited weapon – two stun guns.The trial continues.