Men who rape their wives or girlfriends should be sentenced just as harshly as those who rape strangers, the official body which advises judges on sentencing said yesterday.The sentencing advisory panel said judges seemed to have been passing lesser sentences where the rapist and his victim were known to each other, although this was not a mitigating factor under current rape guidelines which date back to 1986. The panel - mainly academics, judges and magistrates - was set up four years ago to provide independent advice to the appeal court judges on the guidelines they should issue to judges in the lower courts to ensure consistency. The panel's chairman, Professor Martin Wasik, said: "Sentencing practice does appear to be more lenient when the victim and offender were known to each other. It seemed clear to us from the outset that the relevance, if any, of a relationship between victim and offender was a factor that could not simply be ignored in new sentencing guidelines for rape." A research report commissioned by the panel showed that rape was always seen as a very serious crime, and that the impact on the victim was as great, regardless of the individual's relationship with the rapist. "Our advice to the court of appeal is that new guidelines should include a clear statement that 'relationship rape' and 'acquaintance rape' are to be treated by sentencers as being no less serious than 'stranger rape'," he said. Since publication of the last guidelines, in 1986, the legal definition of rape has been changed to include anal penetration of a man or woman, which was formerly defined as non-consensual buggery. The panel commissioned Surrey Social and Market Research at the University of Surrey to carry out in-depth research into attitudes to rape and sex crime. A majority of those who took part thought rape by an acquaintance or husband was just as serious as rape by a stranger. They also thought the current starting point for a rape with no particular aggravating or mitigating features - five years in prison - was too lenient. They believed five years should be a minimum and 10 years the basic sentence. The panel recommends that the five-year starting point should remain, with an eight-year starting point for rape of a child or other vulnerable person, gang rapes, rapes by someone in a position of responsibility or with a sexually - transmitted disease, and repeated rapes in the course of one attack. In 2000, the average sentence for rape by an adult was 7 years four months. One recommendation in the report angered rape support groups. The panel said that where a victim has been "sexually familiar with a defendant and then said no to sexual intercourse at the last moment", the rapist should be punished slightly less severely. "The offender's culpability for rape is somewhat less than it would have been if he had intended to rape the victim from the outset," said the report. Sandra McNeill of the Rape Crisis Federation said: "The idea that the sentence for rape should be lower if you have had some degree of intimacy with the man is shoring up the myth that men can't control themselves."