A woman who allegedly killed her estranged husband with a hammer was talked out of jumping from Beachy Head by police and chaplains, it was revealed today .A 56-year-old woman, named locally as Sally Challen, was in custody tonight as officers investigated the death of her partner at the home they used to share in Claygate, Surrey.She allegedly confessed to the killing as police talked to her for more than three hours on the 500ft cliff edge in Sussex on Sunday afternoon. She was escorted to safety before being arrested on suspicion of murder. Earlier the body of a man in his 60s, said by neighbours to be Richard Challen, had been found at the Surrey house. A postmortem tonight revealed he died from "severe blunt force trauma to the head".The couple, who have two sons, were said to have split up a year ago.Surrey police said the man was found by officers at an address in Claygate, shortly after 1pm on Sunday.Police negotiators from the Sussex force raced to Beachy Head after receiving reports that the woman, who is yet to be formally named, was going there.A spokeswoman for Surrey police said: "Police officers and chaplains managed to escort a 56-year-old Surrey woman to safety from the cliff edge at Beachy Head, after talking to her for more than three hours on Sunday afternoon."Officers had gone to the area after a report that the woman might be making her way there, and found her car parked nearby. She was spotted at the cliff edge just before 1pm and was brought to safety shortly after 4pm. The woman, who was unhurt, was detained for a welfare assessment. Surrey police officers attended Eastbourne custody centre later in the day and arrested her on suspicion of murder."Richard Challen sold his car dealership, Westlake Garages in Richmond, south-west London, to Paul Arulndran when he retired in August 2008. Arulndran said: "It's a big shock. He was a very good man. I only met her twice, but he would come in all the time to see how I was getting on. I did not know much about selling cars when I took it on but he would come in and help me." Arulndran said Challen told him he had separated from his wife: "He was very down. I didn't know anything about it though. Before that he was very cheerful, we would have a joke together."Challen received a 51-week prison term suspended for 18 months in 2006 when he crashed his Ferrari at a racetrack in Belgium, then invented a hit-and-run accident to claim £35,000 for repairs.He pleaded guilty at Guildford Crown Court to attempting to obtain goods by deception.