Crime reduction charity Nacro is coming to the end of a two-year campaign to counter discrimination against ex-offenders among employers. Nothing exceptional in that, perhaps, except that the charity's partner in the project has been management consultancy KPMG.The campaign, Going Straight to Work, will next month culminate in publication of a manual providing relevant recruitment guidance for companies. This will draw on the policies and procedures developed by leading businesses such as Tesco, Whitbread and Granada. With unemployment among ex-offenders standing at 60%, and fears that it could rise still further next year, when employers will be able to obtain details of any job applicant's permanent record of criminal convictions, Nacro was keen to get companies on board. But why did the charity choose to run the campaign with KPMG? "Their involvement has earned us credibility with the business sector, which we need to engage if we are to bring about a shift in employers' attitudes to recruiting ex-offenders," says Helen Edwards, Nacro chief executive. "It's good that a company with the reputation KPMG has among business people is willing to support us in such a public way. Most companies shy away from unpopular causes." Nacro says KPMG has helped through every phase of the campaign and will be funding the launch of the guide and helping with costs of publication. But this is not a business transaction. Consultant Rashmi Bhardwaj spends a couple of hours a month providing pro bono management advice to Nacro as part of KPMG's community brokerage programme, which matches partners' and staff skills and time with volunteering opportunities. In 1999, the brokerage provided voluntary organisations and schools with support worth £600,000. The consultancy has helped Nacro in other ways. It put Edwards in touch with an organisation that found her a much-needed mentor, and a PR company that produced a new logo and strapline for the charity, free of charge. So what does KPMG get out of it? Alan Buckle, the consultancy's chief operating officer, said at the launch of their campaign: "This is an area where community involvement and business agendas converge. Many businesses face skills shortage. By sharing understanding and working to change attitudes, we hope we can involve others with a more enlightened approach to employing former offenders." James Forte, director of social responsibility at KPMG, will next week outline what he sees as the benefits of partnerships among the voluntary, public and private sectors when he addresses a conference organised by the Guardian and the Observer on the roles and responsibilities of business in society. Essentially, the aim is to attract, retain and develop the best brains and increase the consultancy's reputation among potential clients in business and government. Lattice Group - British Gas's demerged pipeline and transportation business - is a supporter of next Monday's conference. It has a £2m programme invested in a range of projects designed to tackle social exclusion. Sir John Parker, Lattice chairman, says: "We believe our sustained commercial success is only possible if communities we serve and neighbourhoods in which we operate also thrive." Sceptics of corporate community involvement argue that companies are first and foremost accountable to their shareholders. Ruth Lea, head of policy at the Institute of Directors and a speaker at the conference, asks: "How can companies contribute other than providing employment?" But she accepts that business faces growing pressure from non-governmental organisations, and the emerging socially responsible investment industry, to do more to tackle social ills. And there can be business benefits in doing so. When Nacro received Home Office funding to improve its project mangement, it called in KPMG to carry out the work. Edwards admits: "It could be argued that if we didn't have the relationship with the community brokerage unit, we might have gone elsewhere." The conference, Business and Society - Roles and Responsibilities, takes place in London on July 9. For more information, contact Yvonne Siegel on 020-7713 4429.