Sitting on the broad, cool verandah of his house perched in the hills above Honiara, William Morrell seems lord of all he surveys. Towards the west is the police HQ, his office for the past six months. That's where the armed militants go occasionally, to share stolen money with some of his colleagues in the force. To the east, he can glimpse the Solomon Islands' government buildings - the place that the militants and police have found most fertile for robbery and extortion.Since January, Morrell has been police commissioner in this scattered archipelago of nearly 1,000 islands, a former British colony routinely described by diplomats as the Pacific's first failed state. The work has not been easy. Since he arrived he has had to deal with armed attacks on government ministers, the beheading of an Australian missionary, and a brutal insurrection by a half-mad rebel warlord. Worse still, the police force he commands is regarded by most as being the country's biggest problem. "I don't think I realised when I was applying for this how challenging it would be," he admits. It's certainly a far cry from his previous job as superintendent of Manchester police, where his last major task was coordinating security for the Commonwealth Games. His 1,000-strong police force contains 200 to 300 officers who would be best described as criminals in uniform - if only there was the money to spend on uniforms. Morrell would dearly love to sack them, but doing so is tricky: while they hold onto their weapons, there is always the risk that they will turn on him. He is phlegmatic about the situation. "A police job is the same the world over. The problems are basically management problems that need to be addressed. Of course, they're much more acute here than in the UK." This is putting it mildly, but Morrell tends to put things mildly. A career policeman trained in public order issues, he exudes a professional unflappability. The calm extends even to his high commission-owned house in Honiara, where he lives with his wife Mary. The couple clearly value their family: their daughter Sarah, 25, an osteopath, will come out to visit them next month; Alex, a 23-year-old Royal Marine, has already been. Fresh from service in Afghanistan and Iraq, he thought the supposedly troubled Solomons were a breeze. He is largely right. Honiara's reputation for lawlessness isn't all it is cracked up to be - there are no pick-ups full of armed men hoisting rifles, no muggings, no random attacks. But things are not so easy for those who have something really worth stealing, such as businesses and politicians. Take the experience of Laurie Chan, the former finance minister who was forced at gunpoint to sign a bank draft extorted by the police last year. Employees in the treasury department no longer bother to turn up at their offices, for fear of the robberies by police and militants that have become almost routine. Then there's the police. Many of the officers are the so-called special constables, former militants involved in the Solomons' violent coup of June 2000. Under the peace agreement that brought that coup to an end, the militants were told they would receive compensation payments if they gave up their weapons and joined the police. In practice, most kept their weapons, did not turn up for work, and demanded thousands of Solomon dollars in compensation anyway. Morrell was landed in this position through a nondescript advert in the Police Review last year. Two years shy of his 30-years'-service retirement, and feeling that he wanted to travel and see a bit more of the world, he was one of only seven people to reply to the ad. Ominously, a briefing that was to accompany his first interview at the Foreign Office in London never materialised. He only fully gauged the seriousness of the situation in Honiara when he was taken to a further round of briefings in Brussels, Canberra, Wellington and Brisbane after accepting the job. "At each one the situation got worse," he says. "I didn't even know exactly where the Solomons were when I first saw the ad. It was only once I was applying that I started looking it up on the internet." What he read was alarming. First there was the armed extortion of the finance minister; then in December came reports that prime minister Sir Allen Kemakeza had been paying protection money to police officers using the Solomons' aid budget. The police had been reminding him of the issue by shooting at his house. Morrell's first reaction was to insist on being accompanied by a guard of Royal Marines. He has not taken a pay rise to come to the Solomons - indeed, his job is essentially part of the EU's foreign aid to Honiara - and admits to having very real fears for his personal safety. He has some protection: a security guard meets people arriving at his house, although he wasn't carrying a gun when the Guardian visited last week. At night the guards are normally asleep; sometimes they don't turn up at all. Morrell says that he has yet to be threatened to his face, but there is little doubt that he is a potential target. The line separating police and militants is hard to define, and powerful supporters of the militants can be found in the Solomons cabinet and in the highest ranks of the police. "You can't even rely on some of the people you're working most closely with," he says. His initial doubts were quickly reinforced when he arrived in Honiara, where the first task was to disarm the militant special constables. He was assisted by Sir Fredrick Soaki, one of his predecessors as commissioner and a leading peace advocate. The main concern was with the constables who had been members of the Malaita Eagles Force (MEF), the rebel group that overthrew the government in the 2000 coup. Soaki met a group of them at a restaurant on the island of Malaita. As they ate, a masked man walked up and shot him once in the side from point-blank range. Morrell was shaken. He had been in the country just two weeks, and one of his closest allies was dead. The police in Malaita, who took 45 minutes to cover the few hundred metres to get to the scene, could clearly not be trusted. Nor could those in Honiara's central prison, who let the three prime suspects escape from under Morrell's nose while they were awaiting trial. Such incidents must weigh heavily on his shoulders, but Morrell discusses the matter with a practiced impassiveness. At a national peace summit in Honiara, he was easygoing and affable - in fact, the very model of a modern colonial administrator. This is no accident, for a colonial-style administrator is precisely what Kemakeza wanted. "[Kemakeza] came in here last year and he was just looking worn out," says Brian Baldwin, Honiara's British high commissioner. "He's been threatened pretty consistently over the past year, and at first he was wanting Gurkhas to come over and sort out the situation. Well, we weren't able to provide that but I said I'd see what I could do." What Kemakeza was looking for above all was neutrality, a quality sorely lacking in the Solomons. As in most of Melanesia, Solomons society is run according to the clan philosophy known as wantok. Your wantoks are your kin, neighbours, and linguistic group - it is pidgin for "one talk" - in a country whose 450,000 speak more than 70 different languages. Wantok has played its part in the ethnic tensions that have torn the Solomons apart for the past five years, and in the deposing of the government by the MEF in the 2000 coup. Amid all this complexity, you can begin to see the advantages of appointing an outsider to take charge of the police. Morrell certainly received a hero's welcome, complete with a display of traditional war dances and a motorcade creeping along the potholed road from the airport. A couple of men with motorbikes were hired as outriders for the occasion. The recolonisation will step up a gear next week, when a 2,000-strong Australian-led peacekeeping force arrives in Honiara. Morrell will be at least nominally in command of the 500 police and 1,500 soldiers, and a platoon of outside bureaucrats is expected to assume key posts in the main government ministries. Barking and Dagenham police chief superintendent John Lansley will be flown out at the same time, to act as assistant commissioner. It looks as if the Solomons will be reverting to a de facto colonial administration, but support for the intervention is none the less overwhelming. After five years of corruption and ethnic tensions, most people can't think of anything worse than the current situation. Most people. There are still plenty who have prospered through the civil breakdown, and plenty who would rather have anything than a return to the colonial government they shook off 25 years ago. Former prime minister Manasseh Sogavare said that the country's parliament was being used as a "puppet for overseas agendas", when a motion on the intervention force was debated last week. Sogavare knows all about puppet governments: he led one for the MEF following the 2000 coup. Morrell is certainly looking nervous. "People expect too much of one man. He can't pick up a rifle and guard the finance ministry on his own," says Brian Baldwin. "But people do look to us for that sort of support. There's quite a strong sense here of Britain being the colonial power. They like the way we do things." Beside the parliament building on another of Honiara's hills, one 17-year-old Malaitan is less enamoured of the old empire. "We should get rid of all of this. Honiara is a white man's town, but we have our own customs. We should go back to our villages and burn this town. Just burn it all so there is nothing left."