A high court judge said yesterday that there was an "absolute need" for public inquiries to be held in certain cases of death in police custody.Mr Justice Collins was speaking on the second day of a judicial review hearing in which eight Metropolitan Police officers are seeking to overturn an inquest verdict of unlawful killing over the death of Roger Sylvester. He told the court: "There is an absolute need, where there has been a death in circumstances that could give rise to public concern, that there should be a public inquiry to establish what the facts are as soon as possible." Roger Sylvester, a 30-year-old black man from Tottenham, north London, died nearly six years ago after being handcuffed and restrained for around 20 minutes by up to eight officers who had detained him under the Mental Health Act. An inquest jury returned a unanimous verdict of unlawful killing in October last year. The jury found that Mr Sylvester had died from brain damage and cardiac arrest, triggered and exacerbated by breathing problems that occurred during restraint and by cannabis-induced delirium. The police officers are seeking to overturn the verdict on the basis that the evidence heard at the inquest did not justify the unlawful killing verdict and that the jury should never have been allowed to consider the verdict. Counsel for the claimants told the court that there were crucial failings in the summing up of the case to the jury by the coroner for Inner London North, Dr Andrew Reid. David Bromley Martin QC described the summing up as "inaccurate" and "misleading" and told the court that the jury's decision had been based on a false premise because the coroner had not properly explained the legal requirements for an unlawful killing verdict. Ian Barnett QC, for the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, said: "The summing up was critically defective from the outset. The jury were not told what was or what wasn't lawful. Unlawful killing should not have been left to the jury at all." But Patrick O'Connor QC, for the Sylvester family, said there were no grounds for the verdicts to be overturned. He told the court: "The family do not strive to maintain an unjust verdict. Nothing of any seriousness has gone wrong with this inquest that means it should be overturned." The inquest began in September last year after delays following the Crown Prosecution Service's decision that there was insufficient evidence to prosecute the officers involved.