The home secretary, David Blunkett, today set out new "stop and search" guidelines which are designed to help restore confidence in the way police deal with ethnic minorities.The new measures will mean people stopped by police will get a certificate telling them why they were stopped. Officers currently only record the details, including racial origin, when they carry out a search. The measure received some support from crime reduction charities, but has also forced Mr Blunkett on to the defensive. This morning he insisted: "We know that intelligence-led, carefully targeted stop and search is a crucial tool ... in actually being able to apprehend those who are not only up to no good but are part of a network of those who are known to be involved in crime and in drug running."Crime reduction charity Nacro welcomed the proposals, with its chief executive, Paul Cavadino, saying: "All too often, stops and searches have been carried out when no reasonable grounds for a stop existed."This practice is wide open to the exercise of prejudice, stereotyping and racial bias."But Marion Fitzgerald, of the London School of Economics, who studied the use of stop and search powers for the Home Office and Scotland Yard, said the new guidelines would be counter-productive. "It's going to on the one hand inhibit the police's ability to go up and talk to people in the street, which they need to do," she told the BBC Today programme. "It's going to unnecessarily inflame those encounters and make them more confrontational, which is something we certainly don't need, and it's going to generate an enormous amount of extra police paperwork which the Home Office has set its face against, and generate beyond that a load of statistics which will be impossible to interpret. "It makes no sense whatsoever." The stop and search programme would have the "confidence of the police and the confidence in the police by the community - and both are absolutely crucial," Mr Blunkett added.The Home Office had adopted the "lighter touch" proposals of the Macpherson report relating to stop and search, so that it would be done in a way which did not inconvenience the person stopped, or the police officers. Mr Blunkett said: "We've got to do this because everyone's right in saying that the present system doesn't work well, we're not catching enough criminals, we're not convicting enough criminals, the criminal justice system isn't working as I would wish it, or anyone else would wish it, and we've got to do something about that."The new guidelines for stops and searches - known as code A of the 1984 Police and Criminal Evidence Act - are based on the most controversial recommendation of the Macpherson inquiry into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence, which ruled the Metropolitan police was "institutionally racist".The revised code is designed to give police confidence to stop members of the public without being accused of racism. But it will mean more paperwork for officers even though Mr Blunkett pledged to cut red tape as part of his police reform programme. Last year police in England and Wales stopped and searched 853,188 people, according to Home Office figures. Officials say there are no estimates of the number of stops carried out but it is thought to be in the region of four million. It could mean hundreds of thousands of extra man hours will be spent on paperwork if the rules are implemented. "There will be bureaucracy in terms of filling in forms but that will be kept to a minimum," said a Home Office spokeswoman. Last week Mike Best, the editor of Britain's leading black newspaper The Voice, called for police to extend stops and searches in a bid to tackle escalating gun crime. Police scaled back its use in the wake of Macpherson - it fell 17% last year, following a fall of 21% the previous year. In the Met the figure was 6% last year following a massive 40% drop in the previous 12 months. However, black people are still five times more likely to be stopped and searched than whites. Home Office officials hope they can restore confidence in the tactic if they can persuade communities it is being used fairly and "on good grounds", specifically saying it should be "intelligence-led" and based on up-to-date information. The spokeswoman said: "The code will demonstrate that it is a useful power that's not being used in a discriminatory way, which has been the complaint in the past." Forces will be told to set up panels of community representatives to scrutinise stop and search records and check blacks and Asians are not being targeted disproportionately. The new code has the "broad backing" of the Association of Chief Police Officers and the Police Federation, said the spokeswoman and it includes a new definition of a "stop". The code says it will be when an officer requests a person in a public place to "account for themselves" including "their actions, behaviour, presence in an area or possession of an item". Details will be written down and the person stopped will be given a copy. The Home Office is launching a 10-week consultation on the new code before beginning trials. Mr Blunkett also named five communities with high crime levels which are to become the first policing priority areas. In the first initiative led by the Home Office's police standards unit, plans will be drawn up to tackle problems with crime and anti-social behaviour which officers have so far been unable to crack. The five areas are:· Camberwell Green, south London · Bristol's Stapleton Road · Stoke-on-Trent's Grange Estate  · Little Horton and Canterbury, Bradford · the West Ward in Rhyl, north Wales. PSU staff have already begun working with the local forces to identify problems in each area and are expected to draw up their action plans within a month. The move is controversial because it is the first time the Home Office - in the shape of the new unit led by former private sector executive and ex-policeman Kevin Bond on a salary higher than prime minister Tony Blair's - has intervened so directly in local policing.