The government today announced plans to step up the use of speed cameras after police found that their use reduced road deaths and injuries by nearly 50%, but drivers will be warned of their presence to give them a chance to slow down and avoid a ticket.The transport minister, John Spellar, said that following successful pilot projects in eight areas around the country, the government planned to expand a scheme to fund speed cameras by reinvesting money from speeding tickets into more equipment. Four new police areas - in north Wales, Derbyshire, Lancashire and Shropshire - will be added immediately, and Mr Spellar said he hoped to take the project nationwide in the next two to three years.Under new regulations, motorists could be three times more likely to get a fixed-penalty speeding ticket, with automatic ticket thresholds being lowered in some areas. Police in north Wales said that speed cameras there will now ticket drivers travelling at 35mph in a 30mph zone, rather than issuing a ticket at the current 41mph cut-off. Responding to criticism from drivers that the cameras were sited "covertly" to increase the amount of money in the government's coffers, Mr Spellar said that any new cameras would have to be properly sited and sign-posted, easily seen and brightly coloured. Mr Spellar said: "I hope that by instructing local authorities to make the cameras more visible, motorists will realise that road safety is our main concern. If they heed the signs and slow down when they see cameras, they, their passengers and pedestrians will be safer and they won't get a ticket. "These instructions emphasise the government's commitment to using safety cameras as a deterrent against excessive speeding, and not as a means of raising money," he added. The government has been running the reinvested money scheme, known as "netting-off", since April 2000. Figures from the eight existing trial areas - Thames Valley (Buckinghamshire, Berkshire and Oxfordshire), Essex, Lincolnshire, Northamptonshire, Cleveland, Glasgow, south Wales and the city of Nottingham - showed that the number of people killed or seriously injured at the camera sites fell by 47% in comparison with the average over the previous three years. Across the eight areas as a whole, the number of people killed or seriously injured dropped by 18%. On average, the number of drivers speeding at camera sites dropped from 55% to 16%.However, Roger Peal, head of road safety at the department of transport, admitted that the department was "not happy" with the results of the pilot in the Thames Valley. The increase in the number of speed tickets given out there had not coincided with such a big casualty reduction as in the other pilot areas. To address driver concerns that the government is simply engaged in a money-making exercise, Mr Spellar said that areas wishing to join the scheme will have to make out a good case to show that the places where cameras are to be sited have the greatest casualty problems.Related articles 06.08.2001: Met snubs drive for more cameras 03.08.2001: 'End secrecy' over speed cameras 23.07.2001: Review of 'covert' speed camerasUseful links AA Department of transport road safety page Transport 2000