Eileen Richey has lost count of the number of emotionally charged phone calls she's received from death row over the past two decades. But one in particular is etched on her heart. 'I think this is it, mum,' her oldest son told her. 'They're going to do it. I love you.'It was 1994. Kenny Richey had been asked to sign a form choosing his preferred method of execution - lethal injection or electrocution. Because he refused, the governor of the state of Ohio decided for him. He would be strapped by the forearms, ankles and neck to 'Old Sparky', as the chair was known, and 1,950 volts of electricity would be charged through his body for 60 seconds. Richey's head and legs were shaved in preparation. He wrote his farewell letters, said his goodbyes, prayed, cried. Then he was taken from death row to a death watch cell, where he came within one hour of being the 316th person to be electrocuted by that state. Photographs of her three sons adorn the walls of Eileen Richey's small but comfortable council flat in Dalry, on the fringes of Edinburgh. Bouquets of flowers have been arriving all week from well-wishers. But Mrs Richey is not in the mood for celebrating yet. She draws deeply on her cigarette. As she exhales, she gazes into the middle distance and slowly shakes her head. 'That phone call was the worst moment of my life. I tried to stay strong for him, but I couldn't. I burst into tears. I couldn't say anything. After he told me he loved me, he started crying. I was breaking my heart and so was he. 'When he hung up, I paced up and down for what seemed like hours. I was too scared to sit down and have a drink because I don't think I would've been able to stop.' Speaking in depth for the first time since a federal appeal court quashed her son's conviction and sentence for the murder of two-year-old Cynthia Collins, Mrs Richey revealed that Kenny turned to her for advice when he was twice offered a plea bargain which would have seen him released years ago in return for an admission of guilt. She also said that she never once doubted Kenny's innocence. It would be easy to dismiss such certainty as a mother's blind faith. But Mrs Richey has been in an unenviably unique position for the past 18 years. In September 1986, her middle son, Tom, gunned down a shop assistant in Washington while high on LSD. After spending one year on death row, he accepted a plea bargain and is currently serving a 65-year prison sentence. Four months after Tom's conviction, Kenny was sentenced to death. 'There's no doubt whatsoever that my son Tom is guilty,' Mrs Richey said. 'He knows he did wrong. He is ashamed of it and he has to pay the price. I drummed into my children two important lessons - never tell lies and never accept the blame for something you didn't do. When Tom came down from the drugs and realised what he had done, he pressed the gun to his head, but he couldn't pull the trigger, so he turned himself in to the police. Kenny never murdered anyone, yet he very nearly paid with his life for a crime he didn't commit. On two occasions, when he was offered plea bargains, Kenny asked me what he should do. I said if you did it, take it, otherwise stick to your guns.' When Kenny Richey left his home in Edinburgh on Christmas Eve 1982, he was a skinny, fresh-faced teenager with big dreams and ambitions. His American father, Jim, had walked out on his wife and three sons, Kenny, who was then 16, Tom, 13, and Steven, 12, the previous year to start a new life across the Atlantic. Kenny was desperate to join him. When he was 18, he boarded a plane. Within two years, Tom had gone too. A few years later, Steven joined them. 'I hugged my sons before they went, never thinking for one minute that it would be the last time I'd touch Tom or Kenny,' Mrs Richey said. 'I wished them good luck. But deep down I was hurting badly. I didn't want them to go to America, and I was upset that they wanted to be with their dad, because he hadn't treated us well. When he left I worked every hour God sent just to make ends meet. It must have been really tough on the boys. At the time I didn't realise the effect the divorce had on them.' Life on American soil started well for both angry young men. Kenny married and joined the Marines. Tom signed up with the US Army Airborne Rangers. But the good times didn't last. In his early 20s, with his brief marriage and spell in the marines behind him, Kenny was living in government-subsidised housing in the small town of Columbus Grove, Ohio. He has described himself as a 'wild man' and a 'crazy head' in those days, admitting that he was regularly drunk and getting into fights. Tom was frequently taking LSD because he said it helped him fit in in the armed forces. The afternoon of 30 June 1986 started like any other, but by two o'clock the next morning toddler Cynthia Collins would be dead, killed by a fire at her home. Richey was arrested the next day and charged with arson and murder. The prosecution argued that, in a drunken jealous rage, Richey broke into Collins's flat, which was above his ex-girlfriend's and where the toddler was 'home alone', poured paint stripper or petrol on the carpet, disabled the fire alarm, then set the floor ablaze. At his trial Richey was represented by a young, inexperienced lawyer, whom his new solicitor, Boston-based Kenneth Parsigian, said made numerous fundamental errors. He employed two world authorities in fire investigation who found that no accelerants were used. They said the fire was started by a burning sofa, probably caused by a cigarette or dropped match. Cynthia had a history of playing with matches. The fire brigade had been called out on three occasions to fires started by her. None of this evidence was heard at Richey's original trial. In the space of four months at the end of 1986, Mrs Richey received phone calls that turned her world upside down. 'My ex-husband called me and told me to sit down. I can't remember exactly what he said or how I reacted. It felt like the beginning of a long living nightmare and, in Kenny's case, an emotional rollercoaster.' Because money was tight, it was years before she could fly to America to see her sons. After seeing them behind bars for the first time, she almost broke down. 'Tom was in an open prison, so it wasn't so bad. He kept himself busy with joinery and writing books. But when I saw Kenny on death row it was like hell on earth. He had shackles on his wrists and ankles and his walk was awkward and painful. He tried to make a joke to keep my spirits up, but it didn't work. I was begging the guards to let me hug him, but they wouldn't.' Tuesday's ruling by the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals in Cincinnati was greeted with delight and relief among Kenny Richey's family, campaigners and lawyers who had stood by the 40-year-old Scot as his case made its way through the complex tiers of capital appeals. Although prosecutors are expected to challenge the decision, it is thought highly unlikely they will demand a re-trial since some of the original witnesses have died, others have reversed their testimony and discredited forensic evidence has weakened their case. Richey's fiancée, Karen Torley, who fought tirelessly for justice over the past decade, said she planned to continue to fight against the use of the death penalty in the US. 'Our priority is to get Kenny home. But it is terrifying that he came so close to being executed. It makes you wonder how many more innocent people are on death row and how many innocent people have been put to death.' Since the Supreme Court reinstated the death penalty in 1976 more than 100 death-row inmates have been freed, their convictions quashed by evidence of innocence. In Edinburgh, Kenny's mother is trying to be jubilant that her son has become another of those 100-plus mistakenly condemned to death. 'Obviously, I'm delighted. But I'm also incredibly angry. It's difficult to celebrate when your son has been portrayed as a child killer and has been deprived of some of the best years of his life.'