After two trials, two appeals and eight years in jail, Barry George was today cleared of the murder of the BBC television presenter Jill Dando.The jury at the Old Bailey retrial dismissed the prosecution's claims that George, described by his defence as "the local nutter", shot the 37-year-old Crimewatch presenter on her doorstep in west London nine years ago.George's lawyer, Jeremy Moore, said his client's first words after the verdict were: "I cannot believe it." His sister, Michelle Diskin, punched the air and said: "Yes."In a statement read by his lawyer outside the Old Bailey, George said: "I am overwhelmed. I want to thank my family, legal team, and all the people who have supported me in prison and around the country."Moore confirmed his client was considering claiming compensation for the eight years he was in custody. "Those years could have been better spent by the police in searching for the real killer," he said.Despite one of the biggest murder inquiries in Britain, no one has been brought to justice for the killing. Diskin, who was central to securing a review of the original conviction, said family members were "really delighted" to have justice."We have been fighting for many years," she said. "Now we need time together to be a family again."Commander Simon Foy, who heads the Homicide Command, expressed disappointment at the verdict and said police would be "reflecting upon it" before deciding how to proceed.The prosecution alleged that 48-year-old George, of Fulham, was obsessed with celebrities and guns, and the jury heard from a series of women who claimed to have been approached by him. But it took the eight female and four male jurors less than two days to return the verdict after an eight-week trial.George, who has epilepsy and a mental disability, was arrested in 2000 and found guilty of Dando's murder in July the following year.In that trial, a tiny speck of gunpowder residue found in George's pocket was central to his conviction. Subsequent analysis led to doubts about its importance. A first appeal failed, but a second, last November, concluded that the fresh scientific evidence meant there was "no certainty" the jury at his original trial would have convicted him.The retrial judge, Mr Justice Griffith Williams, was told the speck of residue, although of the same type found on the victim, could have come from other sources.The retrial jury was told George claimed to be the cousin of Freddie Mercury, the lead singer of the band Queen, and to have served in the SAS.Jurors heard that George had an IQ of 75 - in the lowest 5% of the population. In memory and other tests, he came in the bottom 1% of the population.The defence argued that he was incapable of such a sophisticated killing, which involved detailed planning and specialist bullets.George, a loner who was said to have stalked and photographed hundreds of women, always maintained his innocence.He became the prime suspect after detectives reviewed the evidence and his name came up among several others put forward after appeals to the public.During three weeks of undercover surveillance, he was seen approaching 38 women in the area and trying to make conversation with them.His home, in nearby Crookham Road, was searched, and officers found 2,248 photographs of unsuspecting women. The pictures, on 100 rolls of undeveloped film, included snaps of female television presenters, among them Anthea Turner.Police also found a gun holster and lists of guns, military magazines and a picture of George wearing a gas mask and holding a starting pistol.The prosecution said it was the sort of weapon that could have been converted to fire the fatal shot, but there was no direct evidence placing him at the scene of the murder.Jonathan Laidlaw QC, prosecuting, said George was a stalker obsessed with celebrity and guns who had a grudge against the BBC.William Clegg QC, defending, said the prosecution case was circumstantial and there was no direct evidence that George was the killer.He said the prosecution could not prove that the killer, seen by two witnesses shortly after the 11.30am shooting, was George.The case hinged on the killer being the same man other witnesses had described as being of Mediterranean appearance. "There is insufficient evidence and a fatal weakness in the crown's case," Clegg said.During police interviews, George said he didn't know Dando or where she lived before her death was in the news. "I have never seen Jill Dando in the flesh in any shape or form," he said.George worked as a messenger at the BBC for a short time. After his spell there, he frequently called in to collect copies of the staff newspaper.In 1983, police arrested him as he hid in bushes outside Kensington Palace in an attempt to see Diana, Princess of Wales. He was dressed in combat gear, carrying a length of rope and had a knife in his belt. He was not charged.