A former soldier who bit off part of a man’s ear while dressed up as the late Muammar Gaddafi has been jailed for 16 months.The student Geraint Jones became upset after being pushed and shoved at the bar of a pub in his home town of Aberystwyth, mid-Wales, during a boozy night out, Cardiff crown court heard on Tuesday.The 25-year-old had dressed up as the Libyan dictator for a “bad taste” pub crawl with friends on 31 October 2015. He was in the Academy bar when, Judge Geraint Walters said, he purposefully returned to the bar to exact his revenge on the man he believed responsible for the pushing.Jones bit Gwynant Jones’s ear, severing part of it. The court was told the man’s earlobe was found on the floor by a barman but could not be reattached.“You now accept that in your state of drunkenness you misidentified that man,” the judge said to Jones. “The man that you chose therefore as your victim was wholly innocent of any wrongdoing.”Referring to the ear biting, Walters said: “You don’t need me to tell you that that is the most savage use of force. I can’t personally claim to understand why you behaved as you did. There was something almost clinical in the use of force.”Walters said he had asked himself why Jones, an international history and politics student who wanted to be a diplomat, had committed the offence and felt the reasons “ran much deeper” than anything that had been said so far.The court heard that Jones, who served four years in the army, including a tour of Afghanistan, pleaded guilty in November 2016 to inflicting grievous bodily harm on Gwynant Jones but denied the more serious charge of causing grievous bodily harm with intent. He was found not guilty of that offence by a jury last month.James Hartson, defending, said his client accepted his dream of entering the diplomatic service had been left in ruins and that his current career as an army reservist was also in tatters.“The defendant is deeply ashamed and remorseful,” he said. “In fact he is appalled by his actions. Even when giving evidence to the jury he admitted that what he did was disgusting and disgraceful.”Hartson asked the judge to suspend his client’s sentence and said he had been offered the chance to return to Aberystwyth University to complete the third year of his degree.Walters said the effects on Gwynant Jones were ongoing and that initial surgery to reconstruct his ear had been unsuccessful.“I am prepared to accept that the severing of the ear was as a result of you gripping the ear forcefully with your teeth and in some part because others tried to pull you apart from your victim,” he said. “The reality is, none of that is a comfort to your victim.”Walters said he had considered not sending Jones to prison, but sentenced him to 16 months because he had an obligation “as far as the public is concerned”.