Neighbours of a family banned from an entire council district by one of Britain's most draconian Asbos were planning a celebration party yesterday - but fears still linger in New Brighton that a four-year reign of terror may not be entirely over.Eggs were thrown late at night at houses in Grosvenor Street after media reports of neighbours' relief that John Bridge, 40, his wife Karen, 37, and their sons John, 20, Alan, 18, and Luke, 16, had been banned from all 60 square miles of the Wirral district council in Merseyside for between four and seven years. Four of the five are serving jail terms or are in custody pending criminal charges, but there were claims that Luke Bridge was seen in the back of a car on New Brighton promenade on Thursday evening. While residents enjoyed the sunshine and children played in the street yesterday, no one wanted to give their names. Neighbours in the previously quiet street just behind the prom spoke of the family having "plenty of friends". The family had transformed the atmosphere of the previously quiet street, one neighbour said, with rumours of criminal gangs in Liverpool who might value a base for raids on wealthy housing further down the Wirral. "They might be in prison but they've got a lot of friends," she said, pointing down across Hope Street to the city the other side of the Mersey, a 10-minute drive away. "Maybe it helps to have people over here to do a job for you, while you sit tight and have a nice alibi." Some of the Bridges' "friends" are assumed to have carried out the night-time egging of houses. "Round here it was best to try to be their friend or pretend you were," a woman living a few doors away said. "Otherwise your kids could get their heads kicked in." She was eating a meat wrap with a mug of tea but said she still wasn't sure, after four years of being woken at night by the Bridges' fights and drunken rows, whether it was breakfast time or lunch. "We'll be getting police to block the street so we can have a party now they've gone," she said. "They got used to sealing it off for other reasons while they were here." At number 37, the Bridge family's former home, the curtains and blinds were pulled shut. Outside in the yard, beside a stack of four car wheels and an ornamental lamp post, rubbish was piled up, and a child's toy hovercraft and bubble gum machine were tumbling out of the black bin bags. Two stumps mark the pavement in front of the house. One elderly neighbour explained: "They cut down the two blossom trees to park their stolen cars." She was now planning to get a new car, after her previous one had been stripped and the tyres slashed. "Now I can get my new Fiat 500 without it getting smashed up or nicked." She added: "I'm sorry for wherever they're going." A next-door neighbour who moved in last August said she had been warned about the family but went ahead with buying the house after being told they were definitely moving. She said that, with an earlier interim Asbo in force and several of the adult Bridges away, "we never had any trouble. The younger kids played out the front, and got on with it". The Bridges' three younger children, two girls and a boy, are thought to be staying with a grandmother in Liverpool. A teenage neighbour said she knew one of the daughters at school, and that she "seemed to cope by keeping her head down". Only one man expressed some sympathy: "The Asbo does seem a bit extreme," he said, but added: "Thank Christ they're gone." Even without meeting the Bridges, he had been affected. "They had some kind of bull terrier that killed my 17-year-old tabby. I was about to go round and sort them out, but my missus took the cricket bat out of my hands." The local council said it had been a difficult case, with residents fearful to come forward and make statements. Caroline Laing, manager of Wirral anti-social behaviour team, said: "In my seven years in this job, this is the worst case I have ever seen." Merseyside police created a special unit, Operation Nashville, to monitor the Bridges, collecting more than 20 witness statements. Chief Superintendent Alan Jones, area commander in the Wirral, said: "There were fights in the street with baseball bats, all sorts of disorder, dangerous driving." He added: "People were frightened to come out of their houses. This Asbo is about ensuring that people do behave themselves, and in this case, protecting the community wherever they go next." The five family members were also banned from causing harassment, alarm or distress to anyone in the whole of England and Wales.