A corrupt ex-detective who helped a drugs baron evade police in return for cocaine and nights with prostitutes was jailed for five years yesterday.Former detective constable John Jones, who got to know murder suspect Allan Foster at a gym where they both worked out, was condemned for "a huge fall from grace" by a judge at Newcastle crown court.Jones, who became a building college lecturer after leaving Northumbria police during a prolonged inquiry, used privileged access to the force computer to warn Foster of planned raids and undercover operations. He became Foster's "eyes and ears", the jury heard.Jones was caught after the murder of a rival dealer, David "Noddy" Rice in 2006 in south Tyneside. Police want to question Foster about the death. The killing revealed fears among potential underworld witnesses that "Foster had a cop on the payroll", the court heard. Foster, now 32 and believed to be in Spain, was able to keep a step ahead of detectives and eventually flee the country after Rice's killing in time to avoid arrest, the jury heard. Toby Hedworth QC, prosecuting, said Jones had originally cultivated the dealer as an informant but had fallen for offers of gifts and trips to London where the pair trawled nightclubs for prostitutes.The nine-week trial heard evidence from a London prostitute who remembered Jones, a former plumber from Seaham, County Durham, who is married with two teenage sons.Jones denied four counts of misconduct in public office but was convicted by the jury after 17 hours of deliberation. He was acquitted of accepting money in return for confidential police information. Passing sentence, Judge Esmond Faulks told Jones he had abused the public's trust by safeguarding Foster, even when the dealer became the main suspect in a murder inquiry. The two men met soon after Foster had been released from an 11-year-sentence for violence, drug-dealing and possessing guns and ammunition.The judge told Jones: "You used your privileged position as a police officer not just to access the criminal intelligence system about him but to pass on to him sensitive police information. You also failed to enter on to the police system any information about Allan Foster even after it was clear to you Mr Foster was a suspect in a murder." The judge commended a team of Northumbria officers who tracked Jones's dealings after suspicions had been raised.Ben Nolan QC, defending, said Jones still protested his innocence. He told the court that Foster had been an official informant and Jones had thought him worth cultivating. The disgraced officer told colleagues on his arrest: "I will be honest with you, I did like the lad. I got on really well with him." He admitted only that he had been "foolish" in getting so close.Det Supt Ian Daws, head of Northumbria police's integrity unit, said Jones's double-dealing had severely impaired the Rice murder inquiry. He said: "The failure of a serving police officer in such a high-profile investigation underlines how corrupt he became."Bruce McCall, the owner of the gym in Seaham where Jones and Foster met, was also jailed for 15 months yesterday for importing and supplying illegal growth hormone drugs.