This week marks the 100th anniversary of the Houndsditch murders, the shooting dead of three policemen who surprised a gang of Latvian robbers trying to tunnel into a jeweller's shop. The famous photograph above was taken a couple of weeks later, when two members of the gang were cornered in a house on Sidney Street, in the East End of London.The familiar-looking figure peering along the street is a young Winston Churchill, 36 and newly appointed home secretary. Keen to witness the spectacle first hand, Churchill would have relished the dramatic potential of the photograph – even though tension in the composition is slightly undermined by the flatcapped joker fooling about on the roof directly over his head. Reports that a bullet went through Winnie's hat are probably apocryphal, but it is hard to imagine Theresa May scaling the barricades in similar fashion. Churchill, in fact, was criticised for putting himself at danger and would last only a few more months as home secretary.A more pertinent comparison, at least according to the Daily Mail, is between the Sidney Street robbers and contemporary extremists. The East End was undoubtedly then a haunt of anarchists, revolutionaries and other dreamers, if not quite a "hotbed of terror and radicalisation". Lenin was known to visit the Anarchist Club on Jubilee Street and, according to legend, actually met Stalin in London.But exactly who the mysterious Peter the Painter and the other Houndsditch murderers (one a woman) were is rather murkier. Radical literature, including copies of the Jewish socialist newspaper, the Arbeter Freint ("Worker's Friend"), was discovered at the house where one of the thieves was found dead from his wounds, but William J Fishman, the chronicler of East End radicals, asserts that they were Social Democrats, rather than anarchists.What is certain is that the story, which dominated the newspapers for weeks, stirred up fears and xenophobia that went far beyond the rational. The press railed against "criminal aliens". The Times seems to have invented a story about a cache of guns found in the embers of the house on Sidney Street (the siege ended with a fire in which the two robbers died). Anyone seen wearing what was judged to be Russian dress in the East End and beyond was liable to be set upon and beaten up.The Arbeter Freint, meanwhile, helped to organise the successful tailors' strike of 1912, and the hunched, fresh-faced figure in the centre of the photograph, demonstrating early on his readiness for a fight, went on to make a name for himself facing down not the enemy within but the enemy without.