It's official. We are now living in 'Asbo Nation'.In a report deeply critical of Britain's human rights record, the Council of Europe's human rights commissioner, Alvaro Gil-Robles, said the 'naming and shaming' of people on antisocial behaviour orders was a breach of their human rights, and that children under 16 should not be put in custody for breaching them. In a final swipe the commissioner suggested that the whole country was suffering from 'Asbomania'. Asbos are civil orders made against individuals as a result of persistent antisocial behaviour. They ban those involved from behaving in a specific way, or from entering a specified area. The commissioner's claim is hard to deny in a week when the word 'Asbo' entered the Collins English Dictionary and a Hull poet researching dog names for a literary festival discovered a Staffordshire bull terrier called Asbo.More than 4,000 Asbos have now been issued and there is little doubt they are popular with the public. A Mori poll last week showed that 89 per cent of people support them, although only 39 per cent feel they are effective. The civil rights movement is divided on the issue. Yesterday Andrew Puddephatt, former general secretary of the campaign group Liberty, branded opponents childish, and called on people to stand up for the human rights of the victims of crime and antisocial behaviour. The week began with the news that 11-year-old Siobhan Blake had been served with an Asbo for terrorising the residents of the seaside town of Hastings by pelting them with eggs. On Wednesday, Home Secretary Charles Clarke introduced legislation to deal with alcohol-related antisocial behaviour, including 'booze Asbos' banning problem drinkers from city centres. The campaign group Asbo Concern, set up to expose abuses, joined the debate, asking how the system can be just when only 3 per cent of Asbo applications are refused. By the end of the week, the government's 'Asbo Tsar', Louise Casey, attacked critics of the legislation, saying they were 'not living in the real world'. Eddy Newman, a councillor from Manchester, Britain's Asbo capital where more than 440 of the orders have been issued, said: 'We see them as enforcing standards of behaviour, and as a super-warning, not a punishment.' But Shami Chakrabarti, current director of Liberty, told The Observer: 'Justice and engagement are replaced by tough talk and arbitrary powers which make insufficient distinction between the criminality, irritation and social exclusion. The naming and shaming of children is more akin to the medieval stocks than a 21st-century law and order strategy. We are in danger of transforming Britain into Asboland.'