They have flashing lights, fast cars, yellow jackets and they must be obeyed. But a new generation of law enforcers who can pull you over on the motorway are not police but controversial "civilian traffic officers".In an effort to free police time to tackle more serious crime, officials from the government's Highways Agency have been given powers to direct traffic, close roads, clear up accidents and rescue stricken motorists.But motoring organisations fear their presence will be an excuse for cutbacks in genuine traffic police. The Police Federation has questioned their value for money and is doubtful about their effectiveness after just eight weeks' basic training.Critics have dubbed them "plastic police" and compared them to community support officers, who pound the streets in towns and cities but have no power to arrest.The first 128 traffic officers have been fully empowered since January in a pilot scheme spanning 650 miles of motorway around Birmingham. This summer, the service will be extended to the south-east with the rest of England to follow by March 2006.To the untutored eye, the difference is marginal. But traffic officers' cars have orange, rather than blue, lights and on close inspection their clothes bear the logo of the Highways Agency.On a typical patrol in the West Midlands last week, the Guardian observed traffic officers deal with errant lorry drivers who were resting illegally on the hard shoulder. A farmer was ticked off for burning crops too close to the M40, causing smoke to billow in front of motorists. A motorist who had unexpectedly vomited all over his shirt was given a helping hand.Disobeying or impersonating a traffic officer has been a criminal offence since the beginning of the year. In a measure which has worried breakdown services, they also have the power to tow away vehicles and to demand a fee of £105 from owners.Paul Watters, head of traffic policy at the AA Motoring Trust, said: "We're concerned about any overzealous traits they might display. It's important that motorists should have the right to call, and wait for, their own breakdown services."Officers are armed with "pictograms" for common commands to show to foreign lorry drivers who often speak little English.A senior traffic officer, Richard Arrowsmith, said patrols had rescued horses, dogs and a swan from the motorway. A cyclist was redirected after heading the wrong way down the hard shoulder and a motorist who felt unable to drive because of a spider on the dashboard was moved along.Mr Arrowsmith said: "The motorway's a very frightening environment and people want reassurance. We aren't replacing police resources - we're releasing police resources for other things."The service faced its biggest test last month when two lorries exploded after colliding on the M6, causing a 15-hour closure of the motorway and forcing the evacuation of 100 motorists. Traffic officers worked with the police all night to reopen the carriageway in time for the morning rush-hour.Not everybody, however, is convinced. Rob Dallie, vice chairman of the Police Federation, said another uniform could confuse the public: "How would a vulnerable person feel if they were approached by someone in an unfamiliar uniform, rather than the reassuring presence of a police officer?"He feels the new officers will be an excuse to whittle down the already dwindling ranks of traffic police, which dropped in manpower from 7,500 to 6,200 between 1998 and 2002. Traffic police are viewed as crucial - more than a quarter of people stopped for motoring offences are found to have committed more serious crimes.Mr Dallie said: "There are certain duties where a police officer's time can be spent better - cone placing, cleaning up after accidents and removing vehicles. But we would have to question whether this initiative is really delivering good value for money."