Murder inquiry detectives are questioning two teenagers after firemen discovered a 15-year-old boy slumped in a burning rubbish skip at a shopping mall.Michael Temperley died in the early hours of yesterday morning after a six-hour struggle to save his life by doctors in Newcastle upon Tyne. Two youths aged 15 and 16 are being held after the tragedy at Tam Valley retail park in Gateshead, where classmates of the dead boy gathered to leave flowers last night. Three BMX bikes could still be seen close to the blackened red Biffa skip among pallets which local children regularly used to make home-made bike tracks and jumps on the waste ground. The incident, at 8pm on Monday night, was initially described by police as suspicious, but shortly after lunch yesterday they announced the inquiry had officially become a murder hunt. Detective Superintendent Tony Thornton of Northumbria police said: "It is difficult to understand how awful this must be for the family, but anybody can see it is tragic. It is very early on in the inquiry, but we are working flat out." Michael, who lived at Low Fell, near the park which sprawls along the valley below the Angel of the North statue, was pulled from the blazing rubbish suffering severe burns and smoke inhalation. He died with his parents and 19-year-old brother Richard at his bedside. Two members of staff on late shift at the Halford's bike and car accessory shop in front of the skip tried vainly to put out the fire, using hand extinguishers from the store. Police refused to comment on reports that a cigarette may have been used to ignite paper rubbish in the big metal container. Curtains were drawn at the family's home yesterday. Ross Blyth, a 20-year-old neighbour who grew up with Richard Temperley, said the dead teenager was "a great lad, lovely, outgoing, someone who loved an adventure and was always on top of the world". Police said that the two youths being questioned were arrested at the scene of the fire soon after firemen had reached Michael and doused the flames. Forensic experts were checking the skip and surroundings and a post-mortem examination of the teenager was carried out yesterday. Jan Day, headteacher of Joseph Swan school, Gateshead, where Michael was a pupil, said that students and staff were in a state of shock. Police appealed for witnesses to the incident and goings-on among groups of youths hanging around near the skip and the bike track pallets. Det Supt Thornton said that several shops in the immediate area had been open at the time and customers or anyone working nearby might hold important information.