It was trailed as the White Paper that would leave liberals aghast. Jury trial would be assailed. A new emphasis on retribution would form part of a redefinition of our criminal justice system. However, Home Secretary David Blunkett is a more complex politician than that.Justice for All, published last week, reflects the complexity of containing crime. The White Paper is much more in tune with Tony Blair's old mantra- 'tough on crime and tough on the causes of crime' - than either critics or supporters expected. And even the move that captured headlines, of abandoning the maxim that nobody should be exposed to 'double jeopardy', is carefully argued and qualified. On prisons, the paper confronts the evidence; for most criminals prison is worse than useless. Half of those released are back within two years. Solution; take the idea of rehabilitation more seriously, and be much smarter about the range of sentencing options. There is no point in having the highest prison population in Europe if it has no discernible effect in reducing crime. Thus the White Paper floats a menu of alternatives, including weekend prisons, mixed with a new desire to speed up the trial process so that criminals get before the courts faster. Again, on juries the White Paper strikes a balance. Jack Straw's break with an essential canon of British justice - to restrict the rights of some defendants to jury trial - has been dropped. But recognising that there are some trials, of complex fraud cases or cases where juries might be intimidated, that are beyond most juries, the White Paper suggests that judges reserve the right to try the case themselves. As for discarding double jeopardy, this would happen only if there was genuinely fresh evidence in murder and sex cases. Even the great totem, of making criminal justice fairer to victims, amounts to little more than wanting to increase detection and conviction rates. And for that Blunkett will have to look to a much more efficient police service. This is where the White Paper is at its weakest, inveighing against obstructive lawyers, rather than against a police force whose detection rate is an abysmal 25 per cent. It is here that Blunkett has his biggest challenge. He has yet to address it effectively.