An English teenager on holiday in Belfast has been left severely traumatised after she was raped twice before her attacker used her mobile phone to ring her mother and gloat about what he had done.The 15-year-old, from the north of England, was walking along a main road in west Belfast with three friends when she was attacked by a man armed with a screwdriver. A second man used a metal bar to batter the three boys she was with and stop them rescuing her.Police released a man on bail last night after he was earlier arrested and questioned in connection with the attack. It is understood that he was not the suspected rapist.The girl and her friends were confronted by two men as they walked along Blacks Road just before 3am on Saturday. Their mobile phones and cash were stolen, then the girl was dragged into a BP petrol station forecourt and raped.The boys, two 15-year-olds and one aged 14, were ordered to take off their shirts and were beaten repeatedly. The friends were then forced into the driveway of a nearby golf centre where the girl was raped again.Chief Superintendent Ken Henning said: "This was horrendous and disgraceful. It has caused untold distress to the victims and their families." He said the two men telephoned the girl's mother in England.Detectives urged the attackers, both thought to be in their late teens, to give themselves up.Michael Ferguson, Sinn Féin assembly member for West Belfast, said: "This is the second sexual attack in the general area in a week. I would urge local women not to travel home alone and to be vigilant."Patricia Lewsley, Social Democratic and Labour party assembly member, said: "This was cruel in its planning and evil in its execution. It is clear that this attack was not spontaneous ... For the safety of everyone in the area, I am appealing for anyone who may have any information ... to contact the police."· A man in north Belfast was shot in the chest and seriously wounded yesterday. Police were investigating whether the attack was linked to a feud between the Ulster Volunteer Force and Loyalist Volunteer Force that has claimed three lives. Four men were being questioned by police last night.Meanwhile, a bomb was defused by an army explosives expert during a security alert on the nearby Crumlin Road in north Belfast.