Hilary Clode's husband subjected her to 25 years of physical and mental abuse, so when she decided to take him to court for assault he never expected her to go through with it. "When I walked into that court room, I could tell by the look of shock on his face he didn't think I would show up," says the 50-year-old mother of four.Hilary's husband, a former police officer, was right to assume she would not turn up. Domestic violence in most towns and cities represents 25% of violent crime by volume, but few men are prosecuted because women often fail to pursue their complaint.Hilary's case was heard by Cardiff's Special Domestic Violence Court, which is one of five such courts across the country that have been set up to secure more convictions. Jan Pickles, manager of the city's Women's Safety Unit, helped develop the court after it became clear the criminal justice system was failing women like Hilary. "The victim wasn't even in the process. The perpetrator would go along to the courts and say they had got back together and the courts would accept their word. Agencies such as the police also felt let down. They worked to get the case to court only to watch the perpetrator get off," she says.Although the unit's primary concern is the woman's personal safety, it recognises the importance of getting abusers convicted as a way of reducing domestic violence. "Convictions are effective. It is important to get one, but it is not the only reason. If the perpetrator has lots of previous convictions, it may not make any difference," says Pickles."The aim is to increase her safety and not put her through a stressful situation if it is not going to make life better for her. Many don't want to go to court because they don't want the perpetrator to get a custodial sentence. All we can do is give risk information. Up until then they have been making decisions in a vacuum, they have normalised an abnormal situation."For women who proceed with a prosecution, the unit allocates an advocate to support them throughout the process. Advocates include a seconded police officer and a practising magistrate with years of experience of the criminal justice system. Their role is to keep women informed of their case's progress, liaise with the courts and coordinate all the agencies involved. Advocates also accompany the women to the pre-trial hearing, which was identified by the unit as where many cases are discontinued."The pre-trial review is where deals were being done, cases were being dropped and bail conditions were being altered because the perpetrator said they had got back together, or if the victim turned up they said under duress that they didn't want to proceed," says Pickles.After the pre-trial review, the cases are then flagged to the courts and fast-tracked through the system. In Cardiff, cases are heard within six weeks of the review as opposed to 16 weeks under the old regime. That time could be reduced further, says Pickles, but she believes it is important for women to have the opportunity to understand the process and reflect on what has happened to them. If the case moves to the crown court, the unit tries to ensure it is heard early in the week, alongside other serious crimes.Better training for those who work in the criminal justice system has also been key to improving the service. Some 80 magistrates, 27 prosecutors and 200 defence lawyers have received awareness training, including introducing the idea that children are often the secondary victims in domestic violence cases. Other improvements include encouraging referrals to the unit not just from the usual quarters, such as the police, but also from the A&E department of Cardiff's University Hospital, and even defence lawyers.A special form to identify women who are most at risk was introduced in December 2002 for police officers to fill out when attending domestic violence incidents. The form was developed with the Domestic Violence Prevention Service of the NSPCC and is based on a review of 47 domestic homicides. A score of more than six out of the 15 risk indicators means the woman is in danger and her case is examined at a Marac- multi-agency risk assessment conference - which is held every month and attended by representatives from 16 agencies including the police, probation, health, housing and the NSPCC.By sharing information and their expertise, the agencies decide how to reduce further harm to the victim. "It used to take us three hours to discuss just one case. We now review 20 to 30 cases in that time," says Pickles.The Women's Safety Unit, funded by the Welsh assembly and opened in November 2001, has so far helped over 7,000 women and their children. In that time, repeat victimisation has fallen from 30% to 15% in Cardiff. Pickles is hopeful this can be further reduced. "We could get it down to 4% or 5% if we micro-manage cases and make sure we have the referrals and see what is being done."The number of victims who refuse to press charges after reporting an incident has steadily reduced, from 59% before the unit opened to 2% by October 2004. Cardiff's success has been replicated in the four other domestic violence courts in Wolverhampton, west London, Leeds, and Derby.A 2004 study by the Crown Prosecution Service and Department for Constitutional Affairs (DCA), as part of a CPS two-year project on domestic violence, found that the courts have had a positive effect and recommended that they be extended to cover other areas. Last month the DCA announced plans to set up more courts.In Hilary's case, her appearance at court prompted her husband to change his plea from self-defence to guilty. He was given a conditional discharge. They are now divorced and she is rebuilding her life. Last month she was employed by the unit as an administrative assistant. She also runs a survivors' forum and has completed a counselling diploma."I could never had done without the support of the unit. They were there every step of the way," she says. "Now I give support to others. I believe we are coming into an era where domestic abuse isn't hush-hush any more. There is no need for women to feel ashamed about what has happened to them."