Sir Jimmy Savile OBE died a year ago, aged 84, with his reputation intact as a major star, DJ, children's entertainer and indefatigable worker for charity, reportedly raising more than £40m during his lifetime. Now, six police forces, co-ordinated by the Metropolitan Police, are investigating the claims of more than 40 women that they were raped and sexually assaulted in their early teens by Savile when he was at the peak of his fame in the 60s and later, charges vehemently denied by some members of Sir Jimmy's family. Janet Street-Porter, Paul Gambaccini and Esther Rantzen, among other colleagues, have said that they had been aware of the rumours. Rantzen, founder of Childline, has said that Savile was "A-list", therefore "untouchable", and no "minor" who complained about a television icon would have been believed. "We all blocked our ears to the gossip," Rantzen said last week.The revelations began last weekend in advance of an ITV documentary during which six women gave chilling testimonies about the allegedly predatory behaviour of the Jim'll Fix It and Top of the Pops star and, in some accounts, of other celebrity pop figures. A BBC Newsnight investigation into Savile's activities was abandoned last year, leading to speculation that it had been dropped to protect the BBC's reputation. Several women have alleged BBC staff were told of the abuse and ignored it. If true, this opens the BBC to the serious charge of corporate collusion in the crime of paedophilia. George Entwhistle, the new director general of the BBC, has insisted that there was no evidence to suggest "any known wrongdoing was ignored by management", while the decision in December not to broadcast the Newsnight film was taken for proper editorial reasons.In a further defence of the BBC's apparent inertia, Chris Poole, who worked at Decca Records in the 1970s, says that Savile's alleged proclivities should be set in the context of an era in which behaviour now regarded as reprehensible was commonplace. Rock stars, DJs and music executives were all involved in an underage groupie culture. Be that as it may, Savile is also accused of assaulting children in care at an approved school in Surrey and the now notorious Haute de la Garenne School in Jersey, which has seen convictions of former members of staff. If correct, this is exploitation of vulnerable young people in the classic, timeless paedophile pattern. Furthermore, child sexual abuse, the denial of children's testimonies and institutional collusion are all shamefully not misdemeanours of some shoddy past, they are an ever-present danger.Survivors of child sexual abuse move into adulthood manifesting the scars of their experiences in different ways. Some manage to heal the wounds. Many, however, present damaging behaviour in later years that may include self-harming, low self-esteem, drug abuse and an inability to make lasting relationships. They pay dearly. Since the 1970s, knowledge of how sexual predators "groom" has improved considerably. They often operate within a family circle or they have access to children shielded by a system that wittingly or unwittingly colludes in a predator's activities. Across the globe, for example, some senior members of the Roman Catholic church have protected a large number of paedophile priests. Earlier this year, and only under pressure, the Primate of All Ireland, Cardinal Sean Brady, personally apologised to Brendan Boland, abused in the early 70s, from the age of 11, by Father Brendan Smyth. Brady was informed but did not take appropriate action. As a result, as many as 100 children were abused by the same priest over the years. In Weston-Super-Mare last year, primary school teacher Nigel Leat was jailed indefinitely for abusing girls as young as six. Staff raised concerns about his behaviour 30 times over 14 years but the head took no action.Again in Rochdale, young vulnerable girls abused by a ring of men repeatedly sought help for years from police and social workers, to no avail. As a review of (the lack of) multi-agency response, published in September, reports, incredibly, the violent, sexually aggressive, contemptuous behaviour of the men went unchallenged. Instead, these children who were physically but certainly not emotionally mature were said to have exercised "lifestyle choices". Culpability for this appalling lack of responsibility in the chain of "support" remains disgracefully unclear.Progress has undoubtedly been made in tackling child sexual abuse. All schools and organisations involved with young people, for instance, have an individual "dedicated" to child protection. Professionals, such as police and social workers, in theory, work together and every local authority has a safeguarding children board. And yet, the forest of rules and regulations, as the recent Munro review of child protection confirmed, means red tape often blocks prevention and hampers support for young people, while some of the earliest lessons learned in the 70s are still too often ignored.The rights of children, not least their right to be heard, are often cast aside. Outcomes for whistleblowers continue to be uncertain and channels of accountability in organisations are often unclear. In two recent cases in the US, a bishop and senior managers who knew of abuse and did nothing have been convicted for failure to disclose. That is a welcome development. Of course, malicious allegations occur but far more concerning is that in a highly sexualised culture, the 13-year-old maybe blamed by those in power and not the predatory responsible adult.Every era throws up fresh opportunities for paedophiles but what remains constant is the duty of every adult to protect teenagers as well as the very young. The internet, online child pornography and social media make it that much harder for concerned adults to preserve the metaphorical wall around childhood for as long as is humanly possible. Abuse occurs across the classes but it is encouraged still further where there is inequality and deprivation. Austerity is increasing the numbers of the most vulnerable; cuts are having an impact on the very good work in prevention, support for victims and the detection of increasingly sophisticated paedophiles. That is unacceptable.Sir Jimmy Savile is innocent until proven guilty. In his 1976 autobiography, he described a night with six young girls at his flat. "To date," he wrote, "we have not been found out." It is time to learn whether that was a harmless boast or the arrogant truth.Comments will be turned on later today