Fewer than half of the people serving on juries understand everything that goes on in the courtroom, according to the first research on British juries to feature face-to-face interviews.Only 43% said they understood everything that was happening. Jurors were confused by such legal concepts as "beyond reasonable doubt", and were unsure about how to ask the judge a question, or whether they were allowed to take notes. They were also concerned about the numbers of trivial cases coming before them. Since the failure of the government's attempts to remove the right to jury trial for a range of middle ranking offences, anyone accused of theft still has the right to opt for trial by jury. Eight of the 361 jurors interviewed - although warned that the Contempt of Court Act banned any discussion of what happened in the jury room - expressed concerns about how jury decisions had been reached. "Some felt frustrated because they were unaware of the mechanisms for bringing these to the attention of the authorities," said the researchers, Roger Matthews, Lynn Hancock and Daniel Briggs, of the Centre for Criminology at Middlesex University in London. The House of Lords ruled last week that appeal courts may not investigate what went on in the jury room, no matter how extreme the bias or irregularity alleged. So the only hope of avoiding miscarriages of justice through jury bias is if a juror raises concerns before the trial ends. The study, commissioned by the Home Office, interviewed jurors from six crown courts - Norwich and five in London. Mr Matthews said it would be misleading to pay too much regard to the fact that only 43% of jurors said they understood everything. "Although they might not have understood every bit of terminology, most jurors felt they followed pretty well what was going on." Just over one-third of the jurors had applied to be excused from serving, or to have their service deferred. After serving 55% said they would be happy to do it again and 19% would not mind repeating the experience, leaving just over 25% who never wanted to serve again. Judges were widely praised for the way they treated the jury and managed the case.