Scores of police officers across the UK are avoiding dismissal after being convicted of drink-driving, despite Home Office guidelines that say they should usually be sacked or forced to resign because of the seriousness of the offence. The Guardian has learned that at least 170 officers have been allowed to remain serving - or to retire at taxpayers' expense - after being convicted of drink-driving since the guidelines were issued six years ago.A series of requests for information made under the Freedom of Information Act have revealed wide differences in the manner in which forces deal with officers convicted of drink-driving, or related offences such as failing to provide a breath or blood specimen.Some, such as Nottinghamshire, Thames Valley and Essex, demand the resignation of every officer convicted of the offence if they do not volunteer their resignations, while others, such as West Midlands, demand the resignation of the overwhelming majority of those caught drink-driving. Within other forces, such as the Police Service of Northern Ireland and Northumbria police, the majority of officers convicted of the offence have been allowed to continue serving or to retire. The Campaign Against Drinking and Driving (Cadd) described the results of the survey as "very upsetting".A spokesman said: "Police officers are there to uphold the law, not to look after each other when they break it. This has been a matter of concern for to us for 20 years, and there are clearly people who still don't recognise the seriousness of the offence. It stinks."The guidelines, issued by the Home Office and the Association of Chief Police Officers at the end of 2001 and updated three years later, state: "An officer convicted by a court of a drink driving offence can expect to face a formal misconduct hearing. "The usual sanction to be applied or, in the case of a senior officer, recommended by the tribunal and applied by the police authority, is either dismissal or a requirement to resign to reflect the serious view which is taken both inside the service and by society generally."Acpo in Scotland says it too expects officers convicted of drink-driving to normally be sacked or required to resign. Cadd, set up by the parents of children killed by drink-drivers to offer counselling and to campaign for consistent sentencing, questioned whether the guidelines were stringent enough. Currently, the guidelines allow disciplinary tribunals to take into consideration factors such as whether the offence was committed off-duty, whether "the alcohol reading is particularly high" and whether the officer caused an accident. "Whether or not they've caused an accident is just a matter of luck," Cadd said.