Duwayne Brooks, the young black man who was with Stephen Lawrence when he was murdered by a gang of white youths, is suing Sir Paul Condon and 15 of his Metropolitan police officers over their racist handling of him in the aftermath of his best friend's death.In the first such case to be brought by a member of the public, Mr Brooks, 24, is also taking civil action against the crown prosecution service alleging racist treatment. He is suing the 15 officers and the CPS for breaches of the race relations act, but because of a legal loophole, Sir Paul, the Met commissioner, is being sued for negligence for failing to ensure his officers did not behave in a racist way. The action - in which Mr Brooks is seeking "substantial" damages, believed to be at least £50,000, for the psychiatric injuries he suffered - comes six months after the publication of the highly critical Macpherson report into the Met's handling and investigation of the Lawrence murder in April 1993. It found that the force was riddled with "pernicious and institutional racism".  The report also said that Mr Brooks was a victim of racist stereotyping. "We do not believe that a young white man would have been dealt with in this way," it said. During the inquiry Ian Johnston, assistant commissioner of the Met, admitted: "There is a real lesson for us to learn in how we handled Duwayne Brooks at the scene. I don't think we dealt with him very well at all. I think we let him down." Yesterday, Mr Brooks - who after the murder and was still so traumatised he was unable to give evidence at the time of the inquiry last year - said his main motive in bringing the action was to ensure his experience was not repeated. "I do not want anyone else to go through what I went through," Mr Brooks, an electrical engineer, said. "There have been a lot of expressions of regret by the police but nothing seems to have been done. The Macpherson report highlighted the failure of the police but the commissioner has failed to take any effective action against these officers." His solicitor, Vicky Guedella, said he was seeking damages for the police's failure to treat him appropriately as a primary victim of the crime that killed Stephen Lawrence and for their "botched criminal investigation and prosecution".But she added: "Money is not the prime motive. The commissioner, the CPS and the 15 officers are being sued for their racist handling of Mr Brooks and the harm that caused, including the psychiatric harm. He has suffered from post-traumatic stress for a long time, he has only been able to work for about a year." She added that their racist stereotyping of him had not only hurt him personally but "damaged the criminal investigation, the failure of which in turn aggravated his psychiatric injury." At the scene of the crime, she said, officers had assumed the two young black men had provoked the white youths and had failed to question Mr Brooks appropriately, or to swiftly follow up his information on the attackers. "In the words of the Macpherson report: 'Nobody appears to accept that what he said was true.' " The officers being sued include those first at the scene of the murder, in Eltham, south-east London - none of whom, Macpherson found, had dealt with him properly - as well as police involved in the investigation and the chief investigating officer in the case, Det Chief Supt Bill Ilsley. Sir Paul, who cannot be sued under the race relations act because he cannot be held liable for the racist behaviour of his officers, will be sued for negligence. Grounds include the fact that DC David Coles, chosen to guard Mr Brooks at a supposed safe house during the private prosecution brought by the Lawrence family, was a known associate of Clifford Norris, the father of one of the suspects.