A millionaire madam who ran an "enormously successful" brothel today escaped jail but was told she would be stripped of her wealth.Ann O'Brien - who was given a 180-hour community service order - employed dozens of prostitutes in her plush Mayfair townhouse, banking hundreds of thousands of pounds a year.Vice squad officers watched as a "steady stream" of men paid around £150 to stay at the brothel for an hour. Whips, chains and an array of other "toys" were available for use in six luxuriously-furnished double bedrooms.Southwark crown court heard that a "takeaway" service for hotel guests was also available, enabling them to choose from a range of services priced from £250.Business was so successful that 32-year-old O'Brien, originally from Nairobi, was considering adding a sado-masochistic dungeon to the brothel when she was arrested. She claimed a catalogue of equipment had been sent to her by mistake. She made £1.6m altogether, buying a hairdressing salon in Kilburn, north London, to help explain her wealth, protesting her innocence despite what the court heard was "overwhelming evidence" - including the discovery of 200,000 telephone box cards used to attract customers. A jury last month unanimously convicted O'Brien of three charges of "controlling prostitutes" between October 10 2003 and April 15 last year.Passing sentence today, Judge John Price said that the offences, which carried a maximum of seven years in prison, justified a custodial sentence.However, he said that because O'Brien had spent five months in prison awaiting trial, he did not think she needed to return to jail. "Some form of service in the community - this time unpaid of course - will be appropriate," the judge said. "You lied throughout that trial and the jury found you guilty ... there were many girls involved and a great deal of money was made," he said. "You did very well out of it. The prosecution intend to take that away from you."A confiscation hearing will be held in November, when the crown is expected to seek up to £1.2m. In the meantime, O'Brien was ordered to pay £3,982 prosecution costs, as well as the costs of her defence, which have yet to be quantified.O'Brien faces losing every penny in the 27 bank accounts traced by police as well as the £1.25m townhouse - complete with a top-floor penthouse in which she lived - in Upper Berkeley Street.The court heard that as a teenager, O'Brien - or Wambui as she was then known - dropped out of school to help sell vegetables on a stall run by her mother and aunt. In 1995, her family helped her buy a plane ticket to Britain, where she met and married Patrick O'Brien. The couple moved to London, and the court heard that she became a prostitute in the capital's brothels, using the money she earned to buy her own brothel. She was soon employing girls from around the world."This was an enormously successful business," prosecutor Jonathan Higgs told the two-week trial. "She had a large number of different bank accounts with thousands of pounds going through them every week."To build their case, police posed as punters and carried out a number of so-called "test purchases".After selecting a prostitute, handing over the money and going up to a bedroom, they made their excuses and left - a tactic the judge described as "doing your duty but certainly no more".O'Brien said she provided only an escort service, insisting that what the women might get up to in their own time was nothing to do with her. Prostitution, she said, was a mystery to her.