A brainy moderniser who keeps fit by swimming outdoors all year round is to become the new top judge in England and Wales when Lord Woolf retires at the end of September.Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers will take over as lord chief justice for England and Wales from October 1. Nicholas Phillips, 67, will move from the number two post in the judiciary, master of the rolls, to the top job. Like Lord Woolf, he is seen as a liberal, while the other candidate who had been tipped for the job, the deputy chief justice Lord Justice Judge, is regarded as more conservative. Senior judicial appointments are made by the Queen on the advice of the prime minister, but the lord chancellor plays a key role in the selection. Lord Phillips will be replaced as master of the rolls - head of the court of appeal's civil division - by Sir Anthony Clarke, an appeal court judge and former Admiralty judge who conducted inquiries into Thames safety and the Marchioness and Bowbelle disaster. The new lord chief justice is less at ease with the media than Lord Woolf, but his friends say he will be equally effective in the top judge's most difficult role, standing up to the executive in defence of the rule of law. "He's quite a shy, internal person with a very great sense of duty and obligation," said one judge who knows him well. "He's very jolly with his friends, but finds it quite difficult to have a public persona." A fluent French-speaker, his early schooling was at the French Lycée in west London. He has a French wife, Christylle, a second home near Bordeaux, and lists "France" as one of his recreations. He has two daughters, a stepson and stepdaughter. One of a band of hardy swimmers at Hampstead ponds winter and summer, he keeps a canoe at his French home, and has trekked in the Himalayas and the Philippines and been white-water rafting in New Zealand. He made headlines as the judge presiding over the fraud trial of Kevin and Ian Maxwell, sons of the disgraced tycoon Robert, introducing an innovative timetable for court sittings to make the jury's task easier. From 1998 to 2000 he was in the public eye again, chairing the long-running inquiry into BSE. He opposes wigs and elaborate robes for judges, favouring a simple European-style black robe fastened with Velcro. The deputy chief justice, Sir Igor Judge, will take up a newly-created post as presi dent of the Queen's bench division of the high court. Traditionally, the lord chief justice has headed that division as well as the appeal court's criminal division. Lord Woolf was contemplating retirement when, in June 2003, the government suddenly announced plans to abolish the post of lord chancellor and set up a new supreme court, though the title was later reprieved. The judges feared the reforms threatened their independence and Lord Woolf postponed his retirement to nego tiate a package of measures to safeguard it. He said: "Nicholas Phillips, Anthony Clarke and Igor Judge are outstanding judges. In addition to a deep understanding of the law, each will bring to his new role an appreciation of the importance of the judiciary's role in the new constitutional framework." Lord Falconer, the lord chancellor, said: "Lord Woolf is a great reformer. He has made an enormous contribution to criminal and civil law, and to our legal and constitutional in stitutions. In all that he has done, his moral strength shines through. Lord Phillips is a highly distinguished and universally respected judge. I know that as lord chief justice he will command the confidence of all the judiciary." Lord Phillips said he was honoured to have been appointed to succeed Lord Woolf as lord chief justice. "I am looking forward to taking up this office in October and in the intervening period I shall be working closely with Lord Woolf in preparation for the handover."