Levels of crime, pollution and antisocial behaviour are rising more sharply in London's three richest neighbourhoods than anywhere else in Britain, according to an atlas which maps the changing social geography of Britain for the first time.A comprehensive analysis of nationwide data for 2007-08 and 2008-09 concludes that the quality of "local environmental conditions" in the capital's boroughs of City of London, Westminster and Kensington and Chelsea plummeted over that period.In contrast, the constituencies whose scores improved most were almost all in the north of England, with the three biggest improvements in Sedgefield in County Durham, north Lincolnshire and Blaenau Gwent."Our maps reveal the extent of Britain's bankruptcy in financial, residential, political, moral, emotional and environmental aspects of life across Britain," said the atlas's co-author, Prof Danny Dorling, from Sheffield University."Living conditions in the heart of London are not to be envied, despite all the profligacy there. City lungs are slowly filling up with chemicals; City minds grow weary thinking about where their wallets are in case of theft, and how full they are in preparation for the next financial crash; and City offices and homes burn up power as air conditioners whirl and a thousand and one gadgets are charged."Using data from a wide range of sources, Bankrupt Britain: An Atlas of Social Change maps out how Britain's economic and social fortunes have been affected in different geographical areas since 2007 in the wake of the banking crisis, economic crash, credit crunch and government cuts.This enables local authorities to be ranked by aspects of life that, according to Dorling, "can matter more than money".He said: "The British state is far from bankrupt in the traditional financial definition. But when combined, the stats show it is currently bankrupt in how it treats those who are more vulnerable - especially the poor, the young and the sick."The atlas, to be published on Monday, reveals the places with the best environment records across the UK's 408 local authorities were Durham in north-east England, South Lakeland in Cumbria, Purbeck in Dorset, Broadland in Norfolk, and the Ribble Valley in Lancashire."What is most interesting is how these rankings are changing," said Dorling. "The bigger picture shows that, when it comes to environmental sustainability and sociability in Britain, some of the richest areas are suffering while some of the poorest areas are winning out."Part of the reason, he said, was industrial decline, especially in places such as Barnsley, Doncaster and Rotherham. "This means there are fewer cars on the road, fewer people able to go out and get drunk, get into fights and commit a criminal offence. Of course, it also means fewer people are able to heat their homes so well."Prof Kate Pickett, co-founder of the Equality Trust, said the atlas revealed "the damage caused to the vast majority of us by the moral bankruptcy of the rich and powerful". But the maps also reveal more quirky details: for example, Dorling and his fellow University of Sheffield author Dr Bethan Thomas looked at the rate of malicious calls to the emergency services, in particular the fire brigade, across the country."Malicious calls can be compared as a measure of antisocial behaviour likely to cause harm to others in a way other crimes cannot," Dorling said. "By contrast, antisocial behaviour orders are issued according to the particular policies of individual local councils."The three areas where rates of malicious fire alarms rose fastest, when measured on a per capita basis, were Hertfordshire, Gloucester and Hereford and Worcester. The three areas where they fell fastest in recent years were Greater Manchester, Merseyside and Strathclyde."It was interesting that it was in more leafy counties where the amount of antisocial behaviour rose," said Dorling. "Often the increase was of just a small number of calls but, set against large national falls in rates, the records of these areas does not look good." Across Britain, there was a 21% fall in calls in 2009 compared with a year earlier. Rates of drug-taking and bullying were also higher in leafier areas. "When these results are coupled together, you begin to wonder whether rural life is that idyllic for the young, where many complain of boredom," Dorling said.The future, he claimed, was "dispiriting". If the proposed 25% cut in public sector employment comes to pass, and the private sector fails to create sufficient alternative employment, "we could be looking at unemployment rates as high as 25% in some areas … It is probable that in the immediate future, we are likely to see an increase in the general bankruptcy of British society - in its moral, emotional and environmental levels as well as its financial."This may turn out to be the last time such comprehensive research can be presented, thanks to the government's cuts. "It will not be possible to produce an update of all the topics included here in the future, due to the effect of government cuts on data collection and dissemination," Dorling said. "Many of the surveys we have relied on to plot out the current status of Britain have recently been cancelled." Bankrupt Britain: An Atlas of Social Change, by Daniel Dorling and Bethan Thomas (Policy Press, RRP £29.99). To order a copy for £21 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846