Judith still finds it hard to believe. It happened in a blur one night in May 2005, after a long night of partying. She remembers being very drunk. Then starting the journey back to her room, a student residence in Aberystwyth, west Wales. Then being awake, a long time later, in the corridor outside her room and realising that someone was by her, clearly attempting sex. And then later, much later, realising that someone had actually had sex with her. And knowing that she would not have consented to sex in a corridor. Or at least she did not remember - and if she did not remember, what on earth was someone, anyone, doing having trying to have sex with her? It was rape.When the case came to court, the story made headlines around the world, caused argument and comment in pubs, in legal circles and at the highest levels of government. The outcome played a key part in overhauling the law.The 22-year-old drama undergraduate (Judith is not her real name) became a cause célèbre. Her allegation was that she was attacked by a fellow student at Aberystwyth University, a man who was working as a part-time security guard and had been asked by a member of university staff to walk her home.But after admitting under cross-examination that she could not remember if she had refused or given consent for sex, the prosecution offered no further evidence. 'Drunken consent is still consent,' the judge said. He instructed the jury at Swansea Crown Court last November to return a verdict of not guilty. 'Even,' he told them, 'if you don't agree.'The student alleged to have attacked Judith was 21-year-old Ruairi Dougal. After the case collapsed, he issued a statement saying he 'emphatically denied' that he had sexual intercourse without Judith's knowledge and consent. 'Ruairi Dougal has always maintained that the complainant did consent to sexual intercourse at all stages and that she was fully conscious when intercourse occurred,' said his solicitor, David James.The clear implication of the judge's statement - that women could not complain of being raped if they were too drunk to remember what happened - thrust Judith into the centre of a legal and media storm. From some in the media she faced condemnation for being 'a ladette' who had behaved with culpable irresponsibility. Devastated by the combination of the attack, the court case and the very public backlash, Judith has agreed to tell her story for the first time.'There are still days where I will just completely break down and just scream and cry,' she says. 'I still can't quite believe that all this has actually happened to me. With the benefit of hindsight, I can honestly say that the way I was treated in court was more traumatic than the attack itself. They made me feel worthless and cheap.'The prosecution barrister told me that by admitting I couldn't remember refusing consent, I'd made it look as if I'd been so drunk that I couldn't remember whether I had consented or not. He said that therefore the assumption was that I must have consented.'The interview will broadcast tonight by the BBC's Panorama programme. I was the journalist who conducted the interviews for the programme, part of an investigation into the chronically low rape conviction rate. I was approached by the BBC after a series of articles in The Observer revealed how difficult it was to gain rape convictions.The programme comes after another week when rape is in the news. A Home Office report published last week revealed that a government initiative introduced six years ago to increase the conviction rate and stop defence barristers depicting rape victims as promiscuous has been 'evaded, circumvented and resisted'.Judith says the present law is simply dysfunctional and believes her case sent out a message that people can get away with their crimes. She also argues that the law fails to protect victims and is acutely concerned by the lesson attackers will, she says, learn from her case.'The whole experience left me feeling violated. I had been so honest that I wouldn't even let my mum in the courtroom because I said some horrific, very personal things that even my family didn't know. But it just felt like the court had decided I was just some stupid drunk girl who'd brought it upon herself.''There's no deterrent for rapists; if anything, the law seems to protect them. What kind of message are you sending if a case as strong as mine gets thrown out over a simple turn of phrase?'Her suspicion is backed by some of Britain's highest legal and police figures. 'That judge was wrong to give the ruling he did and obviously that is very concerning. His reading of the law might well not be unique,' said John Yates, deputy assistant commissioner of the Metropolitan Police and the director of serious and organised crime for the capital's police force.'Mike O'Brien, the Solicitor-General, said he was so disturbed by Judith's case that it became his touchstone when drawing up a consultation paper shortly afterwards that aimed to strengthen the legal framework around rape, help reduce the barriers to effective prosecution, and improve the care for victims and witnesses. The paper is due to be published in the autumn.'The issue of capacity, particularly where a woman has drunk alcohol, should be clearly defined,' he said, arguing that while he was not suggesting guilt on the part of Dougal, the jury should have been allowed to decide whether or not the woman had been capable of giving consent while drunk.'These matters ought in future to be properly put before the jury, and the jury should be able to make up its mind whether that victim was in a position to give effective consent or not, rather than having the prosecutor withdraw the case or the judge withdrawing it.'Tonight's Panorama tracks the cases of three women who fought to put their alleged rapists in the dock. One says she was bullied and humiliated by a policewoman into dropping her claim, while another was told by the Crown Prosecution Service that a minor discrepancy in her witness statements made her case too weak to take to court. Judith, whose case was one of the 12 per cent of all reported allegations that go to trial, says her experience of court was so traumatic that if she were in the same position again, she would be extremely unlikely to turn to the law.It is not the first time Panorama has dealt with this issue. In 1982, a seminal film transformed the way that rape investigations were conducted in Britain. Roger Graef and Charles Stewart's documentary, A Complaint Of Rape, showed Thames Valley police officers interviewing a woman who claimed she had been raped by two men she had met in a pub. Graef has returned to the subject to direct this new investigation.Filmed with the full knowledge of the officers involved, the Eighties documentary revealed a police force told that the majority of rape complaints were false. They were trained to test such claims rigorously at the earliest stage in a manner that was intimidating, humiliating and terrifying for victims. As a direct result of that documentary, rape crisis centres were developed and police were retrained to handle complainants with respect and an initial presumption of belief. Improvements have continued: the Sexual Offences Act 2003 clarified the law on consent, 14 Sexual Assault Referral Centres have been set up across England and Wales, with six more in the pipeline. But why is the conviction rate for rape at an all-time low? In 1985, 1,800 complaints of rape were made and one in four men were convicted. In 2003 - the latest figures available - 13,000 complaints were made but just one in 20 men were convicted.The evening had begun as a celebration. 'I'd been studying hard for my exams but my department was doing a leaving party, so I got dressed up,' Judith said. 'I had a couple of drinks before I went, and then we all had a big photo outside the arts building where the party was.'All my good friends were there and everybody was taking pictures, signing year books and saying: "Oh I'm going to miss you so much." A friend brought me another couple of glasses of wine, but I didn't finish the second because I'd already begun to feel ill and drunk.'If I feel ill I would normally just go home, but everything just seemed to be so unclear that night. After a while, I felt so bad that I actually had to go and be sick. The vomit somehow ended up on my dress, and after that I decided I really didn't want to be there any more or have anybody see me in such a state.'I went outside and this woman who worked at the venue said "I'm going to get somebody to walk you home." I was quite insistent I wanted to walk home by myself because it was a five-minute walk across campus and not dangerous at all, but she went off to get somebody. When she came back with a man, she said: 'This is so-and-so and he's going to walk you home' and I said; "OK".'Judith confesses she doesn't remember anything about the walk. Admitting that now makes her ashamed. She recollects getting out her keys outside the halls of residence but then can't remember walking into the halls or up the stairs to her flat. 'The next thing I know, I'm lying outside my flat door on the floor, with part of my shoulder and my head up against the wall. I see a dark figure at my feet and then I think I must have fallen unconscious again.'When I wake up again, he's still standing over me. Again I can't see his face or anything like that, and he ejaculates on me, which horrifies me but I don't understand what's happening.'Dougal has insisted Judith was fully conscious during sex and did consent.Revisiting her memory is difficult for Judith and she stops, momentarily unable to continue. Visibly struggling to regain control, she pushes her shoulders back, sits up straighter and, taking a deep breath, continues: 'Then he leaves and I pick up my keys, and I just open my flat door and collapse in a heap on my bed on top of all my books.'When she woke up next morning, she had no memory of events of the evening before. 'But as soon as I walked out of my flat, I got a flashback of him standing over me. I just didn't understand. I couldn't put it all together.'Judith had a lecture that morning, so she tried to put her broken recollection out of her mind. 'But in the lecture, slowly everything started to become a bit less blurred and I started thinking: "Has something happened to me"?' After the lecture, she returned to her flat and broke down in tears. 'I told my flatmate: "I think something's happened to me". I didn't know what to do.'She decided to press charges, thinking she had been sexually assaulted. Police and medical staff dealt with her sensitively. It was only after the medical examination results came back that she was told that someone had had sexual intercourse with her.'I knew I had to tell my mum, but when I called her, I couldn't speak. I was just consumed with grief and the policewoman had to tell her for me. My mum came straight up to see me, but it's a six-hour drive so the policewoman stayed with me. She kept giving me cups of tea and making sure I wouldn't do anything stupid because when you're told something like you just don't want to be alive.'I did blame myself. Not entirely, I mean, deep down, with something like that you know it's not your fault but you think about how others would see it and you reckon they're going to think: "She was drunk, she asked for it." But as far as I know, getting drunk isn't a crime. The people at the party could obviously see I was in such a state I had to be escorted home. If I was in that much of a state, it must have been clear to anyone that I was incapable of consenting to anything. I was put into his care, for him to ensure that I got home safely. He was the thing I should have been kept safe from.'When the trial date was fixed, Judith knew a tough path was ahead of her. 'I still didn't know whether mentally I'd be able to handle going through a court case - which involved travelling six hours back to the court nearest the university - but I had to force myself because I didn't want him to be able to do it again. I didn't want to go to court for myself, I just wanted to make sure he couldn't do it to anyone else.' It was during her second day of evidence that Judith, already denied screens to shield her from her alleged attacker, felt the full force of the justice system operate against her. It was, she says, one of the most traumatic experiences of her life.'The defence asked me question after question and said things that made me so angry. He said it was steamy and passionate sex, that I had grabbed the man's crotch and seduced him. He kept asking me the same question about consent but it seemed that whatever I answer I gave him, he wasn't satisfied because he would rephrase the question and ask again.'I kept telling him that I didn't remember the events clearly because I was unconscious but that I knew I hadn't consented to sex. I told him that I knew I was unconscious because I remembered repeatedly waking up. I told him it was precisely because it was so obvious to everyone that I was so incapable - even of walking home - that that man had been put in charge of me. I told him that if I was incapable of walking home, I was incapable seducing anyone or of consenting to anything.'But however many times I explained it, he just kept trying to make me agree that I couldn't possibly say definitely that I had not given my consent, because I couldn't remember. He kept badgering me and I got more and more confused. I kept trying to give him the same answer until in the end I agreed I couldn't remember. But that was just a bad choice of words. I couldn't believe it when, afterwards, I was told those three words led to the case being thrown out.'After her admission, Huw Rees, the prosecuting barrister, said he could not go on with the case. He told the judge: 'The question of consent is an essential part of the case. She said she could not remember giving consent and that is fatal for the prosecution's case. It is the intention of the prosecution to offer no further evidence.'The judge not only agreed with Rees's decision but attacked the Crown Prosecution Service for bringing the case. 'In my view, and it is only a personal view,' he said, 'there was never any prospect of a conviction in this case.'Judith still feels the decision by the prosecution barrister to drop her case seems like an act of sabotage: 'When he told me he had abandoned the case and that it had been dropped as a result, I just cried and cried. [The prosecution barrister] kept repeating that it was because of what I had said in court. It really felt like he was blaming me.'The impact on Judith was enormous. 'I couldn't stop crying for weeks. It just kept going round in my head. My mum kept telling me I had to let it go, but I couldn't. I kept saying: "Can't we do something else - get him prosecuted some other way?" I'd go to bed and be awake for hours, beating myself up because I hadn't been a stronger witness.'Judith's case struck such a raw public and political nerve because the law had only recently been changed to toughen it up over the issue of consent. The Sexual Offences Act 2003, which came into force in 2004, states that permission for sex can not legally be given if a person is subjected to violence; detained against their will; is asleep or unconscious; or has been unknowingly drugged.But, crucially for Judith, the Act says nothing about a victim being too drunk to consent. Influential bodies such as the Law Commission had advised the government to include such an alcohol clause. But the Home Secretary at the time, David Blunkett, dismissed that idea because, he said: 'We do not want mischievous accusations being made in circumstances where someone genuinely believed that they had reasonable and honest belief of consent.'His decision was criticised by campaigners for justice in rape cases, who maintained that false allegations were in fact, rare. Their stance was justified soon afterwards when a report commissioned by the Home Office itself found that malicious allegations make up fewer than8 per cent of all the claims made. But by then it was too late to amend the Act, officials said.Jennifer Temkin, professor of law at the University of Sussex, is co-author of last week's report revealing how the recent law designed to improve the situation is having little impact. She says cases such as Judith's fail because of fundamental problems with the way the legal system is structured. 'We have this adversarial court system in criminal cases that means the defence counsel's strategy has to revolve around undermining the complainant's character,' she says. 'Sometimes this is done in a very heavy-handed way, by dragging in her sexual past, sometimes more subtly. But it doesn't matter which way it's done: The strategy is to suggest to the jury that this woman is not entirely credible.'Kirsty Brimelow, a barrister who defends men accused of rape, says she routinely uses this approach. 'Destroying the witness's credibility by putting to them that they are making something up is key to your defendant's case,' she says. 'You have to do that. The balance always has to be to ensure that innocent people don't go to prison, and in an adversarial court system you have to question the witness as robustly as possible.'She says changing the law would make it more likely that innocent people would go to prison: 'If you change the standard of proof just to get a conviction, if you skip out the evidential stage just to get a conviction, you will have innocent people probably sitting in prison for years for something they haven't done.'Temkin is adamant this 'robust questioning' can easily go too far. 'When I interviewed barristers for a recent study, a QC who had represented countless rape defendants said it's terribly easy to defend in a rape case. Because it is so emotional for the witness and she is so nervous, it's easy to undermine her credibility in the eyes of the jury - so easy that he began to feel terribly uncomfortable and no longer does these cases,' she says.Two days after Judith's case hit the headlines last November, Amnesty International published a report into attitudes toward rape in the UK. One third of those surveyed said they believed women who flirt are 'partly at fault' if someone rapes them. A third saw women as being 'partially or wholly' responsible for being raped if they were intoxicated, and more than a quarter thought women invited rape to some extent if they wore seductive clothing. In addition, almost 15 per cent thought a woman would be partly responsible for being raped if it was suggested she had slept around, and 8 per cent thought a promiscuous woman would be totally responsible if she was raped.They were findings that Vera Baird, a junior minister in the Department for Constitutional Affairs, finds profoundly depressing: 'At the moment, the only kind of rape complainant who's likely to succeed is an archbishop's wife, with a totally blameless life. And none of us truly are like that, so how would we fare in the witness box?'Many experts are privately voicing their concerns that the criminal law, adversarial in nature, is incapable of dealing with rape. So much has been done in recent years to try to help rape victims, they say, but raising the volume of rapes reported is not much use if the conviction rate continues to tumble.This weekend Judith arrived back from holiday in Greece, the first she has taken on her own. Life is slowly moving on. But the night that she lived so much in a blur will always be with her, the night she says she was raped. The night she started a long, and ultimately fruitless, journey to face her accuser in court and get some sort of justice.· Panorama goes out at 10.15 tonight.Caught on cameraThis is part of the remarkable dialogue from Roger Graef's 1982 documentary A Complaint Of Rape, filmed in a Thames Valley police station. Two officers interview a woman alleging she had been gang-raped by men had she met in a pub.First policeman: I've been sitting 20 or 30 minutes, listening to you. Some of it's the biggest lot of bollocks I've ever heard. I can get very annoyed ... What happened? I'm sick of the ups and downs, ins and outs. Some of this is better fairy tales than bloody Gretel can do. Stop mucking us about.Complainant: I'm not mucking you about.First policeman: I'm not saying you're lying. Get rid of the fruitiness, the beauty about it, and let's get down to facts and figures.Complainant: It's not beautiful at all, is it?First policeman: Some of it is. All this crap about bus stops, and 'tea towels to wipe myself down with'. What the hell's gone on? If nothing's gone on, let's go home. If something's gone [but] you think, that's just an experience; that's life, then all right.Complainant: That's what I do think.First policeman, shouting: This is the biggest bollocks I've ever heard.Second policeman: I will agree that maybe you've had sex this afternoon, and it's not with your boyfriend. But I would go as far as to say, I think you've been a willing party to it. No, seriously. You're not upset by it. You haven't taken a blind bit of notice of anything that's gone on. The story you've told us is, like my colleague said, a fairy tale.First policeman: It doesn't hold water, this, does it? I'm not saying it's not true. What I'm saying is, there's a lot more to this. Unfortunately, we will never know the other side of the story because we don't know the other three blokes. Two, one or none, whatever the case may be, I don't know. All we've got is your side of the story, and you're still making a fairy tale out of it.Complainant: I'm not ...First policeman, shouting: Do you or do you not want to make a complaint of rape?Complainant: No, I don't.First policeman: Because if you don't, it's a waste of time us three sitting here and talking about it, and we might as well pack up and let you get going.Complainant: Well exactly.First policeman to second, mocking: Oh, two of us are thinking the same thing, then.