A paedophile who admitted terrorising teenage girls into sending him explicit photographs of themselves via the internet was jailed for 10 years yesterday.Adrian Ringland, 36, used his hi-tech knowledge to remotely seize control of his victims' computers in order to force them to strip and strike humiliating poses.The jobless father-of-two even boasted to one 14-year-old who threatened suicide unless he left her alone: "Call the cops ... they won't trace me."Ringland, from Derbyshire, adopted the alias of Ant Jones, an "attractive" 14-year-old boy, to use internet chatrooms, where he lured young girls into correspondence before brainwashing them with technological trickery. Victims believed they were opening a photo of their new online friend, but when they clicked on the bogus picture the attached file contained a Trojan virus which infected their computers, allowing the sexual predator to establish remote control.Ringland took over the computers, terrifying the girls into complying with depraved demands.Lisa Wilding, prosecuting at Inner London crown court, said: "This is about manipulation, exploitation and ultimately sexual gratification, and reveals the horrors that lurk within the internet and the minds of some individuals that use it."Ringland's computer expertise allowed him to move cursors around the girls' screens; text would appear, their printers would go into action, and their CD-rom trays would fly open and snap shut.He even forwarded naked photographs of them to their email buddies - all from the safe anonymity of a special study room in his own home. One girl said it was like a scene from the film The Matrix when Ringland blanked out her screen.But he was caught when a 14-year-old girl from Manitoba complained to her parents. They told the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, sparking an international manhunt. The teenager emailed: "Dude, you're scaring me ... please don't do this. I'm freaked" when Ringland demanded a nude photo of her, but eventually sent him intimate poses, despite protesting that this was "internet rape".The investigation, which involved Canadian, US and British police, led to Ringland's address at Ilkeston, Derbyshire, where he lived with his partner, their two children, and her 14-year-old son. Even then, he tried to blame his partner's son. But detectives who interviewed the boy quickly realised he did not have the expertise to carry out the crimes.After Ringland's first court appearance he was released on bail and banned from having computers in his home while his case was prepared. But when police called to check on him they found a 14-year-old girl in his bed. He had groomed her from an internet chatroom and had been having regular sex with her while on bail.Ringland pleaded guilty to 20 charges relating to internet abuse, two of indecency with a child, four of hacking, four of blackmail, and 10 of making indecent photographs of a child. They involved three girls in the UK and in Canada. Thirteen similar charges concerning several girls on both sides of the Atlantic were ordered to remain on file. Ringland also admitted six charges of unlawful intercourse with a child and one of internet grooming.