He expects to get stabbed some day soon. His friend, Damilola Taylor taught him that much. Last Thursday, outside the gates of the primary school where Damilola was such a keen student, a man threatened to knife the slender 15-year-old in the stomach.Hours earlier, three teenagers had been charged with the murder of 10-year-old Damilola. Now, as darkness fell over Peckham, Hasty was ordered to hand over his skunk joint, or else. For a moment they stood glowering at each other. Then the aggressor left.Hasty strolled on, passing the Oliver Goldsmith School towards the North Peckham Estate, the same route Damilola took until his murder shone a light on the brutality and deprivation that had corrupted Britain's inner cities. Four years on, however, those who study Damilola's generation warn that the problems of youth poverty, drugs and violence have worsened. Last week, The Observer was guided through Damilola's old neighbourhood by a gang of Peckham teenagers. Some had gone to school with Damilola but, unlike the murdered youngster, these hailed from broken families and a childhood of abuse. All smoked marijuana throughout the day. All had recently been referred to youth offending programmes but had left after all parties involved felt the youngsters were not benefiting. Many were returning to the North Peckham estate for the first time since they were rehoused after its sprawling alleys were razed during the regeneration that Damilola's death prompted. They wondered whether things had improved. There was Hype, 17, so named because of the frenzied reaction a can of Coca-Cola induced. Alongside was Smiley, also 17, whose afro hair-style fluttered six inches above his forehead. There was the delicate frame of Rade, 15, who sees her father once a year in Ireland, and her friend Fodie, 15, whose nickname is a street term for weed and who also should have been at school. And then there was Hasty, who for years had been the chief roller of the joints they sucked last week on the crowded number 12 bus from Peckham to the West End. 'Damilola never smoked in primary like the rest of us, but no one took it out on him. That's how good a guy he was.' In the weeks after Damilola's death, the great and the good flocked to Peckham, pledging that crime and deprivation would be eradicated. Tony Blair and the Archbishop of Canterbury spoke at Damilola's memorial service. Prince Charles met his parents. Peckham would become a symbol of rebirth where the wrongs of the inner city would be forced right. Today, the estate is characterised by neat, low-rise townhouses and wide pavements. The middle classes have moved in. An hour after inspecting its new image, Hasty and Hype had decided no amount of cosmetic improvement could quash a past so rooted in drugs and violence. said: 'Well it looks better, but the same people are still here, the same problems.' Passing residents were unanimous in their appraisal of the tidy new streets: looks can be deceiving. In the centre of the estate, where Hasty recalled cramped flats with bedrooms dedicated to the storage of bales of crack cocaine, the issue of drugs remained. 'It'll take five minutes to get a rock, it's easy man. Crack is everywhere, but it's a real loser's drug,' he said. In the effort to obliterate the past, the desolate stairwell where Damilola died is gone. All that remains is an alleyway cordoned off by a 12ft steel gate. There is no plaque to Damilola, but his death will never be forgotten by peers like Hasty. Despite the council's claims that the area has improved dramatically in the subsequent four years, an Observer investigation has found a darker picture. Violent crime has risen by almost a fifth in Southwark, the borough that includes Peckham, escalating from 7,442 offences between 2000 and 2001, to 8,912 between 2003 and 2004. Robbery increased in the same period, by six per cent to 2,295 cases. In Southwark, there were 532 knife crimes last year, 40 per cent involving attacks on a person. Stabbing has become an accepted form of attack or defence, particularly when aimed at the legs and arms, among Damilola's generation, according to Camilla Batmanghelidjh. She runs the Kids Company charity that offers a lifeline to some of south London's most disenfranchised youngsters. She is among those that maintain that the government's rehabilitation for teenage offenders has deteriorated since Damilola's death. One local headmaster of a nearby secondary school told The Observer how five murders were committed outside his school gates during his first term in charge in 2002. They occurred between September and December 2002, two years after promises were made to halt the culture of violence in Peckham. Since then, a police presence has ensured no further fatalities yet, even now, 10 out of the 25 secondary schools in Southwark need that constant police presence. One officer admitted that there remains a 'shocking numbers of kids' excluded from the education system who remain a danger to themselves and others. Even so, just 230 youngsters are on the borough's child protection register. Attendance levels at secondary school are 91.7 per cent, compared to the national average of 98 per cent. In addition, the borough has the UK's second highest teenage pregnancy levels. School beat officer Mark Ashdown, who has worked in Peckham for the past eight years, added: 'There is a challenge which remains uncomfortably large.' Although drugs and weapons are no longer an issue in schools, Ashdown concedes that the smell of skunk often pervades the Peckham streets. As does the stench of poverty. The latest government statistics confirm that the area contains four wards in the five per cent of the most deprived in the country. Those same figures claim that 59 per cent of children live in benefit-claiming households. Almost four in 10 pupils are eligible for free school meals and unemployment remains endemic, running at two-and-a-half times the national average, although it has fallen. However, overall crime levels have dropped. Southwark at the time of Damilola's death had the highest crime rate in London, now it is joint ninth. A £290m investment programme has dramatically improved the look of the area. Yet some of the most striking facts come from the Peckham residents themselves. A a post-regeneration poll conducted by Southwark council found that 'only' 35 per cent of inhabitants wanted to leave the area. The the same proportion believed the area has improved in recent times.