No convictions have been overturned in the first test appeals under a new interpretation of “joint enterprise” laws, dashing the hopes of those who claim they are victims of a widespread miscarriage of justice.The decisions handed down by the criminal court of appeal on Monday will disappoint hundreds of imprisoned young people who had been considering bringing similar challenges.Their hopes had been bolstered by a supreme court victory in February, which declared that judges had been misinterpreting the “foresight principle” in joint enterprise cases for 30 years. The panel of appeal court judges, led by the lord chief justice, Lord Thomas of Cwmgiedd, examined the cases of 13 men affected by the principle, technically known as “parasitic accessorial liability”.The court focused on the facts of each individual case to test whether the defendants – who were mostly young and from black or minority ethnic backgrounds – should have been convicted.But in none of them did it deem the convictions to be unsafe. Delivering the judgment in one of the main cases, the judges said: “Given the jury’s findings of fact, their verdicts would have been no different [in the light of the supreme court ruling]. We refuse leave as we are satisfied that there was no injustice, let alone substantial injustice.” They made similar observations in the other cases.The decisions were greeted by shouts of “Shame on the court” and “No justice, no peace” by campaigners who gathered to hear the judgment.Gloria Morrison, one of the organisers of Joint Enterprise Not Guilty By Association, said: “They have given us nothing.”Deb Madden, also of Jengba, said: “We are going to go back to the supreme court. It’s wrong to put someone into prison for something that someone else did.”The campaigners had been hopeful that the case of Michael Hall would help write a new interpretation of the law. Hall, then 22, an electrician, had been with his girlfriend, Laura Mitchell, also 22, outside a Bradford pub in January 2007 when a fight broke out over who had booked a taxi. During the initial scuffle, Hall said, he pulled the eventual victim, Andrew Ayres, 50, off Mitchell. She was later seen wandering around the car park; she said she was simply trying to find shoes, which had been lost.Both Hall and Mitchell, who has a young son, insisted they were unaware that two of their co-defendants had allegedly gone to a nearby house, armed themselves with CS spray, knuckledusters and ball and chain mace and returned for a more serious fight. But in relation to Hall, the three court of appeal judges concluded that his lawyers would have to demonstrate that a “substantial injustice” had occurred.The judges said: “It is plain on the facts that [Hall] would have been convicted of manslaughter had he not been convicted of murder ... In our view, the jury must have concluded on the evidence before them that Hall was in the second phase of the incident, a party to the common purpose of inflicting unlawful violence on the group.”In the February assessment, Lord Neuberger, the president of the supreme court, said that a line of legal reasoning introduced in 1984 had been an error. Foresight of what someone else might do was merely part of the evidence, he said. “It is for the jury to decide on the whole evidence whether [a secondary party] had the necessary intent.”The law of joint enterprise, also known as “common purpose”, operates where someone acts in conjunction with the killer but does not strike the blow that causes death. It makes them equally liable for the killing.Under the old foresight rule, someone could be convicted of a crime committed by an associate if it was judged that they had foreseen the accomplice might commit it. Joint enterprise law dates back to at least the 16th century. It was later developed to deter duelling by making seconds and doctors liable for murder.Many of those jailed under joint enterprise rules for secondary roles in crimes have been handed extremely long sentences because judges’ ability to exercise discretion in individual cases was curtailed by the imposition of mandatory life tariffs for murder under the 2003 Criminal Justice Act.Commenting on the appeal court ruling on joint enterprise, Alison Levitt QC, the former principal legal adviser to the director of public prosecutions and a partner at the law firm Mishcon de Reya, said: “The law, even as clarified by [by the supreme court], still leaves substantial room for concern about the position of those who, whilst guilty of murder as a matter of law, in reality played a lesser role. “Although this will not help those already convicted, perhaps this is now the time for parliament to give consideration to whether the offence of murder should now be divided into first and second degree murder.”Suzanne Gower, managing director of the Centre for Criminal Appeals, said: “The court of appeal’s disappointing judgment will make it even harder for individuals and families whose lives have been ruined by a faulty, now-discredited interpretation of the law to achieve justice.“Put simply, today’s ruling combined with our declining appeals system will prevent injustices from being corrected.”