 1-2:  That a ministerial priority be established for all police services to increase trust and confidence in policing among minority ethnic communities. Action taken:  The home secretary announced in June 1999 that increasing trust and confidence in the police force would be a ministerial priority. Four performance indicators to judge the police by have been put in place using existing information, including recorded racist incidents, recruitment, retention and progression of ethnic minority staff, and the use of stop and search and its impact on different ethnic groups.  3-5  and  8: Inspectorate of constabulary to be given powers to inspect the Met and other forces with standards similar to Ofsted, as well as recruiting and using lay inspectors.  Action taken: Report of Met inspection published last month, reviewing community and race relations strategy. New model for inspections by April, and it is hoped two full time inspectors specialising in race and diversity will be in post by April 1.  7: Functions and powers of the Metropolitan police authority should be the same as other police services, including the power to appoint all chief officers, while membership of all police authorities should reflect ethnic mix of communities.  Action taken: From July the MPA will have similar powers to police authorities outside London, with the power to appoint up to the level of assistant commissioner. The commissioner and deputy commissioner will remain royal appointments. The ethnic breakdown of the membership of police authorities was published in July last year, showing 6.6% of members are from ethnic minority groups. Selection panel for MPA established; advertisements produced for vacancies.  9:  A freedom of information act should apply to all areas of policing, subject to the "substantial harm" test for withholding disclosure.  Action taken: The FOI bill, published in November, covers all aspects of policing with two exceptions - information relating to informers and information held for purposes of investigation or prosecution. These can be overridden where disclosure is deemed in the public interest.  10: Investigating officers' reports resulting from public complaints should not attract public interest immunity and should be disclosed to complainants subject to "substantial harm" test.  Action taken: Consultation on new procedures has begun.  11: Race relations legislation should apply to all police officers.  Action taken: Government has said all public services are to be brought within scope of race relations act. Bill published and committee stage completed.  12-17: A racist incident should be any incident perceived to be so by the victim or any other person. Includes crimes and non crimes, which must be investigated with equal commitment. Reporting of racist incidents should be encouraged, and information shared by police, local government, housing and education agencies.  Action taken: Police, CPS, home office and other agencies have adopted the inquiry's definition of a racist incident. Racist incidents standing committee is working on a code of practice.  18-19:  Acpo should review good practice guide for police response to racial incidents and should consider producing a manual for investigation.  Action taken: Text has been agreed subject to amendments.  20-22:  Metropolitan police service should review procedures at scenes of incidents and procedures for recording and retaining information.  Action taken: Immediate review of Met scenes of incidents procedures and new logging procedures in place.  23-28: Family liaison officers should be available at local level, must be trained in racial awareness and cultural diversity. Investigating officers should know the importance of family liaison and informing victims families about the crime and investigation. Requests or complaints by families should be reported to a senior officer.  Action taken: Acpo is reviewing family liaison to develop it as a specialism. Training courses have been set up in 12 forces to standardise and implement changes.  29-31 and  44: Police and home office should develop guidelines on handling victims and witnesses, with training and witness liaison officers. Local minority ethnic contacts used to assist handling and interviewing sensitive witnesses. Bail conditions imposed to prevent victim and witness intimidation.  Action taken: Legislation on vulnerable and intimidated witnesses passed. Victim support working party reported and changes are to be introduced.  32-34: CPS to ensure racial motivation for crime should be addressed both when deciding to prosecute and at court. No plea bargaining in racial crimes.  Action taken: Claimed recommendations implemented.  35-37: CPS to ensure victims and or families consulted and informed personally with speed and sensitivity of any proposal to discontinue proceedings.  Action taken: Claim already being done. The decision to discontinue should be fully recorded and disclosable to victim and family save in exceptional circumstances.  38: Consider giving court of appeal power to permit prosecution after acquittal when viable fresh evidence is presented.  Action taken: Home affairs select committee currently reviewing "double jeopardy".  39: Consideration be given to amendment to allow prosecution where offences involve racist language and behaviour, and of offences involving possession of offensive weapons, that can be proved to have taken place in a non-public place.  No action. 40-41: Consideration to be given to allowing victims or victims' families to become civil parties to criminal proceedings, and to ensuring they receive all relevant information.  Still under discussion. 42-43: Evidence and documents should be disclosed in advance to interested parties at an inquest and legal aid should cover costs of victims and their families.  Action taken:  Disclosure accepted in relation to deaths in custody while costs provided in exceptional cases.  45-47: First aid training for public contact officers to be revised.  Action taken: Working group has made recommendations.  48-54: Immediate review of racism awareness in police force, including training for all staff. Ethnic communities should be involved.  Action taken:  Beginning last April a 3-year programme to deliver training to national standards has been set up by national police training. To date 14 force-based projects have been established.  55-57: Changes to police disciplinary and complaints procedures should be implemented and monitored. Disciplinary action should be available for at least 5 years after retirement. Racist words or acts should lead to disciplinary action.  Action taken: New procedures since last April; the home office is reviewing sanctions after retirement, while racist language and behaviour is now breach of police code of conduct.  58: Home secretary to consider steps to be taken to ensure serious complaints against officers are independently investigated.  Action taken: Feasibility study in progress.  59: Home office to review and monitor promotion for officers.  Action taken:  Targets set for inspector to Acpo rank and selection for the senior command course.  60-63: Stop and search powers to remain unchanged but records, available to the person stopped, must be kept. Records to be monitored, and published.  Action taken: Pilot sites set up in four areas.  64-66: Targets for recruitment, progression and retention of ethnic staff, with reports sent to home secretary and published.  Action taken: Targets set last April. Home office strategy document produced.  67-69: Consider ation of amendment to national curriculum aimed at valuing cultural diversity and preventing racism, with schools recording all racist incidents, to be published.  Action taken: Statutory study for citizenship for all 11-16 year olds from September 2002, covering national, regional, religious and ethnic identities. All schools required to have anti-bullying policies in place.  70: Implement local initiatives aimed at promoting cultural diversity and addressing racism.  Action taken: Home secretary has written to all local partnerships to highlight issue. 