The political blast by the Metropolitan police commissioner against a soft mollycoddling criminal justice system could not have come at a more sensitive time. The home secretary, with the support of the lord chief justice, is due to produce a package that will ease the prison overcrowding crisis by reducing the numbers being sent down.So is Sir John Stevens, the commissioner, right? On one front only: the lack of care and attention which victims and court witnesses receive. He quoted a survey in Manchester which found 83% of witnesses who had appeared in court wanted nothing more to do with the system. The rest of the indictment - criminals who had been placed above the law, muggers being released on bail eight or nine times for separate offences - was political knockabout. Any system dealing with 5 million recorded offences a year will contain individual outrages. For this reason, Sir John's examples are unimpressive. The idea that the system has gone soft is nonsense. The commissioner should look at the crown court statistics. They show the proportion of convicted offenders being imprisoned increased from 49% in 1993 to 63%. This increase in imprisonment has coincided with a dramatic drop in crime - by 33% in the past five years. Far from becoming too soft, the courts have become too punitive, as even the lord chief justice has noted. So what is going on? The answer is politics. This is the third blast from Sir John in two months. He has clearly been stung by three developments: the home secretary's criticism of police efficiency; the police reform bill which will introduce a new standards unit to end unacceptable variations; and the threat that home office hit teams will take over police divisions in big cities if violent crime is not cut. Police efficiency is notoriously patchy. Detection rates show a serious deterioration: down from 45% in 1971 to just 24% in 2000. It falls way below 20% for crimes which most disturb the public - burglary, theft and robbery. Mr Blunkett is right to insist these should improve - and right to reform the pay structure with its bloated overtime rates. Far more progress would be achieved by increasing the efficiency of the police, than in increasing their numbers or prison places. This may not help Mr Blunkett in his Treasury negotiations which, as we reported yesterday, have become strained. But it still remains true.