An Englishman sent poisoned drinks to public figures as part of a plot to try to force the British government out of Scotland, a court was told today.Wayne Cook, 45, also threatened to kill English people "with no hesitation or compunction" by poisoning water supplies, Manchester crown court heard.Cook, of Tyldesley, Greater Manchester, is charged with two counts of using noxious substances or things to cause harm and intimidate, under anti-terrorism legislation.The unemployed father of three is accused of sending miniature bottles of vodka filled with caustic soda to the Blackburn and Darwen councillor John Wright and the Scottish journalist Myra Philp on April 25 2007.Paul Taylor, for the prosecution, told the court the caustic soda was of a sufficient concentration that it could have killed anyone who drank it.The bottle sent to Wright was intercepted by sorting office staff who became suspicious of the package.The second package, sent to Philp, was accompanied by a letter that read: "Dear Myra. Exclusive. This bottle is full of lethal caustic soda. Any chemist will immediately confirm this by a simple test."A very large number of similarly poisoned items have just been sent to political figures all over England. An example is councillor John Wright who will be getting his at the town hall, King William Street, Blackburn. Perhaps you might warn him?"Pity you cannot warn the other targets individually, but we want to demonstrate our intent to kill English people at random and with no discrimination or compunction. This is necessary to convince the British Government that we will lethally poison England's water supplies, if they do not withdraw totally from Scotland."It was signed "SNLA", an abbreviation of the Scottish National Liberation Army.Taylor told the court that Philp had been targeted by the SNLA before and was helping police with an inquiry into their activities.He said: "They are a terrorist organisation. You can gauge their agenda from the letter: total withdrawal from Scotland by the British government. The objective was to be achieved not by democratic means but by threats of mass murder. That's what terrorism is all about."Taylor said swallowing the caustic soda would have been "like swallowing a very strong bleach"."As well as posing a danger to Mr Wright and Ms Philp, the miniature vodka bottles could easily have been damaged in transit and anyone whose skin came into contact with the liquid, the caustic soda, could have been burned, perhaps even disfigured," he said.The trial continues.