One of the worst things about being banged up in jail is being reminded of the world outside.Prisoners at top security Whitemoor jail were becoming irritated by sunlight reflecting off the blades of a nearby wind turbine, and creating flickering shadows inside the prison. After representations by the prison service the company operating the turbine has agreed to switch it off in the early morning, for fear it might upset the inmates and jeopardise security. Whitemoor contains prisoners it is best not to upset, including road rage killer Kenneth Noye, Jeremy Bamber who murdered his family, and Barry George, who killed television presenter Jill Dando. The turbine produces electricity for 4,000 homes and came on stream last month at a cost of £1m. Longhill Energy said it had agreed to the periodic switch-off after talks with prison officials.Managing director Martin Alder said: "I suppose the bottom line is that it's a matter of security. We don't want to upset prisoners. "The problem is that at this time of year the sun hits the blades of the turbine at a certain angle and creates flickering shadows over parts of the prison. "Some of the prisoners complained that the flickering was irritating them. We've discussed the problem with the prison authorities and agreed to turn the turbine off for a few hours in the early morning until about 9am. "The problem only occurs at certain times of the year when the sun is low." Mr Alder added that problems with flickering shadows caused by wind turbines is one reason they are not built near housing. The prison is just a few hundred metres from the turbine and the company will manually turn off the blades until an automatic system can be in stalled which would turn them off for a few hours before 9am. A Home Office spokeswoman said: "We can confirm that HMP Whitemoor is in discussions with the turbine company over the operation of their wind turbine. "The Prison Service is reaching an agreement whereby the wind turbine does not interfere with the smooth running of the prison."