Mugshots of convicted paedophiles who have absconded from supervision in the community could be posted on the internet to warn children and parents, it was revealed today. A new government agency - the Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre (Ceop) - plans to press ahead with the controversial tactic, which some fear could trigger attacks on offenders or people who look like them. When the News of the World published the names and photographs of child-sex offenders in 2000, innocent people were targeted by vigilante groups who took on themselves to punish men they believed were paedophiles. Ceop, which is based in London, has been created at a time of increasing concern about the growth of online child pornography and the use of the internet as a tool by predatory paedophiles.The chief executive of Ceop, Jim Gamble, warned paedophiles they should "get help or get caught" because the internet was no longer seen as "unpoliceable". Police officers working for the agency, which was officially launched today, will use also pose as children to try to catch paedophiles who use internet chatrooms to groom their victims. As well as trying to combat the distribution of child pornography online and stopping paedophiles using chatrooms, the centre will teach young people about using the internet safely. The unit, with a budget of £5m a year, brings together for the first time police and experts from the private and voluntary sectors. The centre will have access to the latest technology from a number of companies, including Microsoft, to try to put its agents one step ahead of paedophiles. Mr Gamble said he had written to police forces to ask their views on posting online the mugshots of abusers who had absconded from supervision by Multi-Agency Public Protection Panels. "If the risk [from the sex offenders] is high, we need to consider new and perhaps constructively aggressive measures before they harm a child in the community," said Mr Gamble. He said negotiations with the Association of Chief Police Officers about using mugshots were "well advanced". It is estimated around 3% of the 30,000 people on the sex offenders' register have lost touch with the authorities at any one time. Around 100 of those are considered to be high-risk offenders, including dozens convicted of offences on children.Mr Gamble, the former deputy director of the National Crime Squad, said: "For a long time we were seduced by the internet and felt we couldn't police it. That is not true."The information superhighway is no different from any other public place. We are occupying the information superhighway in the same way that we occupy other public spaces." Mr Gamble said that Ceop would adopt a new range of tactics to crack down on child sex abuse, including taking a much closer look at the finances of suspects. He said: "We're going to make the community safer by tracking financial transactions in the way we do for organised criminals. If you book a trip to Cambodia, we're going to know."He said Ceop had already established links with authorities in places such as Cambodia, where paedophiles have been travelling to try to abuse impoverished children and create pornography.Techniques used to identify victims in child pornography would also be used more widely to clamp down on abusers, he said. "We're going to introduce the imagery to a far greater range of partners to identify the clothes, the artefacts and the furniture so that we can date it and place a geography on it." Mr Gamble said that authorities had been playing catch-up with criminals for too long. "But now, when the criminal gets the next version of software, the industry that invents it will have already delivered that technology to us." The Ceop website, which went live last night, received its first credible report of a possible offence at 8am today, Mr Gamble said. The agency will run a 24-hour service to follow up intelligence about offenders, both online and offline. Ceop is affiliated to the new Serious Organised Crime Agency, which was launched by the prime minister at the beginning of this month.In the UK, the number of people cautioned or charged over internet child pornography offences quadrupled between 2001 and 2003 to a record 2,234 cases. Last year members of the public sent 23,658 reports of suspicious content to the Internet Watch Foundation, up 37% from 17,000 in 2004. Of the reports from 2005, 6,128 led to the discovery of illegal content.John Carr, internet safety adviser at the children's charity NCH, said today it was particularly gratifying "to see industry, law enforcement and children's charities working together in this highly innovative way to ensure appropriate safeguards are in place to help protect ... children from harm".