Officers in the Metropolitan police had thought 2010 was turning out to be a relatively good year for gun and knife crime. Last year, overall gun crime doubled in London despite falling across the country, so the relative paucity of "gang violence" headlines, it was hoped, was a sign of change. Those hopes now seem to have been dashed. At the end of March, schoolboy Sofyen Belamouadden was stabbed to death in front of hundreds of commuters at Victoria tube station. A spate of incidents in the capital have been reported since then. In Sofyen's case, more than 20 people have been arrested and 12 teenagers charged with murder.These tragedies are inevitably followed by a debate about youth violence, the social causes and the political consequences. But in communities where the problem is more permanent, a division is emerging. On one hand there are the victims – in each case a child murdered and others traumatised. On the other there are those charged with the offence and parents struggling to comprehend life sentences for their children.This division is playing out along the unlikely lines of a centuries-old principle of English law. The rule of "joint enterprise" has become a symbol of the way in which the criminal justice system is dealing with young offenders. Some see it as a powerful tool; to others, it is a cause of injustice.Simply put, joint enterprise is a rule that allows several people to be charged with a crime where they are not the primary offenders. The common law doctrine has developed in the courts over the centuries because, as Lord Bingham has put it, "it is notorious that many, perhaps most, crimes are not committed single-handed".This doctrine has been widely used in international war crimes trials – used as a way of trying Slobodan Milosevic, for example (albeit unsuccessfully), for the forcible removal of non-Serb populations during the Balkan conflict, a crime in which many took part. In the domestic context consider a bank robbery, where not only the person who robs the bank but also the lookout and getaway driver can be charged with robbery.In the more vexed context of murder, former law lord Lord Hoffmann postulated a "plain vanilla" version where several people participate in an attack, each intending that the victim be killed. When the victim dies, all are guilty.But in real life, murder is rarely "plain vanilla". A famous case in 1952 saw 19-year old Derek Bentley convicted and hanged for the shooting of a police officer though he didn't fire the bullet, because he is alleged to uttered the words to his 16-year old accomplice: "let him have it".Teenagers are being convicted of offences they watched happen but did not participate in. In one of the most controversial recent cases, Wigan father Garry Newlove was murdered by a group of youths he confronted outside his home. One of the boys convicted of his death – then 16-year-old Jordan Cunliffe – was not alleged to have dealt the blows. Instead Cunliffe, who is partially blind, was convicted on the basis that he was there, and did nothing to prevent the attack.Questioning the use of joint enterprise is not to underplay the horrific nature of these offences. But in law, murder has always required two key ingredients: the act of taking someone's life, and the intention to do so – or to cause "really serious harm". Anything less may not mean innocence – there are also serious assault and public disorder offences which can be used to tackle group violence: but a murder verdict is, and should be, reserved for those culpable of intending to cause death through violence.The families of victims often say that all those involved in the killing of a loved one – be it actively or through failure to try to prevent an attack – are equally deserving of punishment. But beneath the emotive facts of these tragic cases some objective factors are emerging.Professionals on both sides of the criminal justice system agree that joint enterprise can encourage lazy prosecuting. Prosecutors can charge the whole group and leave the court to allocate individual culpability. This inevitably ends with lengthy trials and complex directions to juries. It is certainly capable of producing results that strike many observers as unfair.The police claim that the ability to charge multiple defendants through joint enterprise is a strong deterrent. The message they hope to send is that being associated with a violent crowd and involved, even marginally, in a foreseeable attack that leads to a death could result in a murder conviction. To this end the Met have produced a DVD they show in schools and discuss with students."Judging by the reception this received at a north London group Strength in Numbers – young people campaigning about the law on joint enterprise – such efforts are not having the desired effect. Instead there is an overwhelming suspicion that the criminal law will penalise young people for being in the wrong place, at the wrong time and with the wrong crowd. This perception is not helping to build trust with the police.Then there is the supposed deterrent effect. Since Sofyen Belamouadden's death, the London borough of Hackney alone has seen two more incidents, with aspiring 17-year old footballer Godwin Nii Lawson stabbed to death, and 16-year-old Agnes Sina-Inakoju shot through the window of a fast-food shop. There is little to suggest that the teenagers now serving life sentences are in the minds of the young people who continue to take part in violent attacks.The courts have long acknowledged the problematic nature of joint enterprise, and proposals for reform have been floated by the Law Commission and the president of the supreme court. Meanwhile, to quote Bingham, the use of joint enterprise "may lack logical purity, but it is underpinned by a quality of earthy realism". Realism and justice, however, are not necessarily the same.