Reporting the Shannon Matthews case has been made harder by the wall of legal secrecy surrounding the central character, 10-year-old Shannon herself. On the face of it, this may seem civilised and the best way of seeing that some good comes out of the whole mess. But is it?The decision by the Crown Prosecution Service not to call the child meant that we did not get a balanced picture of what life was like in the Matthews home. We have had to scrabble for scraps – literally scraps of paper with children's secret notes about rubbish food and keeping quiet – which suggest how wrong things had gone.We also have an incomplete picture of Shannon's imprisonment, based on lurid details like the restraining leash with a noose (we don't actually know if this was ever used). Michael Donovan's evidence was all we had to go on, and no one could rest content with that.When Shannon was asked soon after her rescue if she wanted to be reunited with her mother, she showed no enthusiasm at all. That was the nearest we came to hearing her point of view post-kidnap, and very interesting it was. Legal proceedings also surrounded the Panorama programme on BBC TV, which looked at earlier dealings between Kirklees social services and the Matthews family. How useful to a general understanding, one not inflamed by scoops and exclusives, it would have been if that had been rehearsed in court.The difficulty I have with "protecting the children" and "the children come first" is twofold: it can promote a sentimental and sometimes misleading image of children. And it can gag them and protect others. It is amazing to me that the case of a father from Sheffield who repeatedly raped his two daughters and fathered seven children by them has been so little reported, especially compared with the related horrors in Austria. The reason is another legal wall intended to protect the children, both the daughters who are young women now, and their surviving families. In practice, it also protects the father and inhibits informed discussion about how to try to avoid repetition, an avoidance in which ordinary Joe or Jill Neighbour, as well as the professionals, should be involved.There weren't any dungeons in South Yorkshire, thank goodness, but a ghoulish relish in such things isn't what this is about. It isn't about clobbering social workers either. It is about trying to get, and convey, a rounded and accurate picture of what really went on. Not necessarily by opening the floodgates to us hacks, but through getting things into open court.It is ironic that so many people (including myself) were annoyed that the Panorama programme was rushed on to the schedules and therefore replaced Little Dorrit. Dickens has more to tell us about dysfunctional families than most. And his children speak.