From the 10-year-old boy assaulted when he met Jimmy Savile outside a hotel to ask for an autograph, to the many children abused in their schools after writing to Jim'll Fix It, the victims of one of the country's most prolific, manipulative and deceitful paedophiles, had one thing in common; their absolute vulnerability.Over six decades some had made pathetic attempts to protect themselves, like the girls at Duncroft approved school who created a codeword "beef biryani" as an alert that they were being assaulted. Others were too young or too ill to even know what was happening; the eight-year-old boy who was sexually touched and the youngest victim, the 12-year-old who fulfilled a dream by going on Top of the Pops only to be groped by Savile during a break in filming and the dying teenager at Great Ormond Street Hospital whose relative witnessed what happened, but felt unable to speak out.Savile's offending began when he was a young man of 29, before he became a BBC star, and continued into his 83rd year when he shoved his hand up the skirt of a middle-aged woman on a train from Leeds to London. His victims number more than 450, and include 28 boys and girls under the age of 10, 38 children aged between 10 and 13, and 34 children and young people whom he raped.He exploited his access to every kind of institution in British society, carrying out at least 57 sexual assaults on children in 14 hospitals, abusing young people in numerous schools across the country, and at the BBC, assaulting young people at least 33 times in TV and radio studios between 1959 and 2006, when the last recorded allegation took place at the recording of the final Top of the Pops. Many children who were assaulted in their schools had written to him inviting him to come and see them."Much as he could just turn up at hospitals and be allowed in, he went to a number of schools because children have written to him on Jim'll Fix it," said Det Supt David Gray, the officer who has spent the last three months examining the perversions of a powerful celebrity whose modus operandi was that of the classic child abuser. "He was a celebrity and therefore he could turn up on his own and be asked in. He could do anything he wanted to really."The key to his unchecked lifetime of sexual abuse was his ability to con his way into the hearts of the nation, blatantly threatening those who dared challenge him, and leaving in his wake hundreds of damaged but crucially silent children and young people."He didn't have to threaten them not to say anything," said Gray. "He did what he wanted to do then he discarded them and moved on and they were too frightened to say anything. The opportunity he had by virtue of his celebrity status and the ability he had to turn up anywhere and be allowed in gave him extraordinary access to children."But the release of three separate reports on Friday; from the Metropolitan police and the NSPCC, the Crown Prosecution Service and from Surrey police, has shed harsh light on what Commander Peter Spindler of Scotland Yard labelled a sordid tale of a larger than figure who had "groomed the nation".What leaps out is the extraordinary missed opportunity the police and CPS had to prosecute Savile in 2009 when the voices of four of his victims raised themselves to a whisper. That whisper should have been built into a loud, robust shout, alerting other forces like the Met, who had an assault complaint about Savile in 2003, Thames Valley – where Savile was abusing dozens at Stoke Mandeville – and West Yorkshire, his home force. But it never happened.The first to come forward to Surrey police in 2007, was Ms B, a woman in her 40s, who had attended Duncroft school as a girl. She described how it was common knowledge that Savile would make "advances". The girls thought he was "creepy" and would try to avoid him.She told police he had sexually assaulted another girl, Ms C, in the television room at the school.In her report Alison Levitt QC, the CPS lawyer who reviewed the failings of police and prosecutors, said: "They sat in rows on chairs which had backs but no arms. Ms B described how she was sitting next to Ms C, and that Jimmy Savile was on Ms C's right hand side. As usual, the lights were off whilst they watched television. Suddenly she heard Ms C say "oooh, beef biryani"; she looked to her right and saw Jimmy Savile take Ms C's hand and put it over his crotch area." She said other girls had been targeted in similar ways.Surrey detectives tracked down Ms C – who independently described the same incident, saying he had put her hand on his groin, moved it around and made himself "aroused."But it took months for the officer to take a formal statement from the victim and she was never told allegations about Savile were being made by other women.Separately another woman, Ms A, had contacted Sussex police in 2008 to describe how she was indecently assaulted by Savile in 1970 when she was in her early twenties. She had invited him to stay in her mother's B&B. The CPS report says: "One Saturday in about 1970 at about lunchtime a chauffeur driving a large Rolls-Royce arrived unannounced at her house to take her to see Jimmy Savile … She and Jimmy Savile ended up in his caravan … He started saying things to her such as 'you are lovely; I'd like to lock you up in a cupboard and you'd be with me all the time', and that he could get her a job on Top of the Pops."She was then pushed down on to the bed, ending up on her back; he was lying next to her and started to touch her breasts over her clothes. He asked if she was on the pill and she replied 'no, I don't do that sort of thing'. He then called her something like a 'little dolly bird' and took hold of one of her hands and placed it on his groin. His penis was erect; he moved her hand up and down until she pulled her hand away."The woman had written to the Sun in 2007 because she was angry that Savile was being held in such high regard. The paper encouraged her to go to the police, and eventually Ms A decided to report it. But Sussex police failed to build the case against Savile. Instead they effectively scared the woman off, Levitt's report concludes."He [the officer] had left her in no doubt as to how difficult it would be for a prosecution to take place because Jimmy Savile was a 'big celebrity' … it would all take place in a 'big court in London' and his lawyers would make 'mincemeat' of her … She also got the clear impression from the police that she would be publicly branded a liar."Ms A was never told that other women had made allegations to the police, never offered special measures to give evidence in court, and never told she would by law remain anonymous.On 1 October 2009 Savile was interviewed under caution by Surrey police about four allegations including the Sussex case. But Surrey's own review into the investigation said: "Savile was dictating not only where the interview would take place but also who would be present in order to maintain an element of control on his behalf."During the interview Savile threatened the police women that he would take action if they pursued the case."If this [these allegations] does not disappear then my policy will swing into action … If I was going to sue anyone, we would not go to a local court, we would go to the Old Bailey 'cos my people can put time in the Old Bailey … I have no kinky carryings-on. But because I take everything seriously I've alerted my legal team that they may be doing business and if we do, you ladies [the two female officers] will finish up at the Old Bailey as well because we will be wanting you there as witnesses."Surrey police had details of four women who gave credible accounts of assaults by Savile, including the Sussex case. But 10 days after his interview the CPS reviewing lawyer ruled that a prosecution should not take place. Levitt said on Friday that was wrong."The allegations were both serious and credible; the prosecutor should have recognised this and sought to build a prosecution … had police and prosecutors taken a different approach a prosecution might have been possible."It is too late for the victims of Savile to see justice in the courts. But Peter Watt, of the NSPCC, said the lasting change necessary to avoid more people falling victim in future was for children to be listened to, given a voice, and for that voice to be acted upon.