Rehabilitation is the holy grail of the prison service. Most of those working inside Britain's jails are constantly looking for ways to cut recidivism and reintegrate offenders into society. Rehabilitation gives everyone a quieter life - prisoners, guards and the public. The only real questions have been over the effectiveness of any individual approach.New research published today by the Learning and Skills Development Agency (LSDA) at its annual research conference will show how a course in oral communication and thinking skills can improve prisoners' quality of life in custody and significantly reduce the likelihood of their re-offending. The project, which was started in 2003 and involved 211 inmates from four prisons, is believed to be the first UK study to look at the impact of a specific educational course on recidivism. And the results were startling. Reconviction rates in the first year after release among ex-prisoners who had begun a general education course between 2001 and 2002 ran at 28% compared with a national average of 44% for all offenders. The reconviction rates within the first year for those who studied the English Speaking Board's (ESB) oral communication courses were lower at just 21% Dramatic differences It is self-evident that there are huge differences in the quality of education provided at different prisons, but while researchers believe that the gap between general courses and the ESB is not statistically very significant, they argue that the average figure for reoffending of 24% is. "There is a growing recognition that cognitive behavioural psychology does not hold all the answers to the rehabilitation of prisoners," says David Moseley, reader at the Centre for Learning and Teaching at Newcastle University and coauthor of the LSDA research. "Instead, there is substantial evidence that education and training can help to reduce recidivism. Educational experiences in prison can help to build character, raise self-confidence and aspirations and reduce the likelihood of re-offending. The ESB course has proved especially beneficial for certain groups, particularly those with conviction for theft and burglary, repeat offenders, those with shorter sentences or with a high risk of reconviction." Maggie Greenwood, head of research at the LSDA, goes along with this. "What came across is the importance of speaking, listening, thinking and reasoning," she says. "In many cases, the focus in prison education is on literacy and job-related skills. What this research shows is the importance of helping prisoners to become more articulate, control their anger and interact with others, focusing on the "softer" skills like emotional intelligence. Research shows many offenders have failed to develop critical reasoning skills, resulting in thinking that is too concrete and rigid. Training in oral communication helps them to develop their ability to express themselves clearly, which helps them to become more tolerant towards others, less frustrated when they can't get their views across, and more flexible." The ESB oral communication courses are designed to be run for one afternoon a week over an eight-week period and can be used to support other learning or as a stand-alone course. Sue Walton is head of education at Lindholme, a category C training prison in south Yorkshire, where inmates are normally serving sentences of six months to three years. "Many of our prisoners have severe communication difficulties," she says. "They find it extremely hard to vocalise their problems and make themselves understood: often, that's why they end up in prison. The ESB course works holistically: it doesn't just help with communication, it helps teach them how to deal with their anger - how to be assertive not aggressive - and gives them self-confidence. The most common feedback we get is that prisoners have found their voice." Help with telephone manner The course is divided into several modules. The key component is a presentation - usually involving a PowerPoint display - to all the members of the group on a subject of interest to the learner - sport, geography and history are favourite topics at Lindholme. The research is often limited to what's in the prison library, as offenders do not have access to the internet, but it's the process of gathering, selecting and delivering information, rather than the content itself, that is the point. On top of this, students get modules in anger management - disguised as more general forms of learning - and help with their telephone manner. "Prisoners often find it difficult to communicate without using body language," Walton continues. "Telephone training teaches them how to get their point across in the most appropriate way using just their voice. "We've been running these courses for about four years and their popularity has spread by word of mouth through the prison. Now we're permanently over-subscribed and the external examiner has described the prison as a flagship deliverer." A few prison officers are still sceptical about these courses, saying they're "English to blag the Old Bill with", but far more common are responses, such as "we can see the difference when a prisoner has been on it. It helps them to be calmer and more open to persuasion, rather than getting angry and incoherent." The LSDA believes that their research shows that oral communication skills should be given greater prominence within prison education - the Learning and Skills Council has already funded one member of the research team to devise a two-level course for prison educators - not seen as just an add-on to written communication skills. And it will be shouting that from the rooftops today - as well as putting it in writing.