The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, is likely to order an inquiry into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence after meeting his parents yesterday. The move was cautiously welcomed by Doreen and Neville Lawrence, who have campaigned for four years to bring their son's killers to justice after what they believe has been a series of failures by the police and legal system.  The hour long Home Office meeting, refused by Mr Straw's predecessor, Michael Howard , comes four months after an inquest concluded that Stephen, aged 18, had been murdered by five white youths in an unprovoked racist attack in April 1993.  Mr Straw said he would now consider whether to proceed with a judicial review of the handling of the case by the police and Crown Prosecution Service or a wider public inquiry led by a judge into the issues of racist crime and relations between the authorities and ethnic minorities.  Mr Straw said he had met Mrs Lawrence while in opposition and was impressed by her determination.  'I recognise that a strong case has been made by Mrs Lawrence for some form of inquiry and I am actively considering what she put to me,' he said. The broader issues of racially motivated crime had been discussed. 'I will . . . reflect upon the best way to address the widespread concern resulting from this case.'  Stephen, a promising student, was stabbed to death by a gang of five white youths as he waited for a bus in Eltham, south London, in April 1993.  After the CPS dropped charges against Neil Acourt and Luke Knight, the Lawrence family brought a private prosecution against them, Jamie Acourt and David Norris. Jamie Acourt and Norris were discharged during committal proceedings. The trial of Knight, Acourt and Gary Dobson collapsed at the Old Bailey last April.  Michael Mansfield, QC, representing the family, confirmed that the Lawrence family was still considering other legal avenues, such as civil action, but said any action depended on the remit of a future inquiry.  He said there was a pattern of racial attacks and murder in society which had to be addressed. 'There is great unanimity about the need to ensure that the black community in particular is satisfied that all has been done. This type of inquiry is the only way forward.'  Mrs Lawrence, accompanied by her husband, who has recently returned from the Caribbean where Stephen is buried, described her anger at the police and lack of faith in the judicial process. 'What we want to find out is the truth of what went on that night. The only way we're going to find out is through a judicial inquiry. A police inquiry is not enough.'  She said the inquest had shattered any remaining faith she had in the police after officers failed to criticise the initial investigation, immediately after Stephen's murder.  She said the five youths who had refused to answer questions during the inquest had been shielded. 'There has been a cover-up. Why? We are not asking for special treatment. What we want is justice.'  'If we ever get what we want then this will set a marker that young black people can walk the streets and feel comfortable. There will not be someone who can say 'I can kill this person and no one will do anything about it'.'