Former police officer Danny Major considers himself lucky to have a job, even if it is in a gas company's call centre and on half the pay he was receiving as a constable in the West Yorkshire force.Any hopes Major had of following his father as a career policeman and rising through the ranks ended when he was convicted, at a retrial, of assaulting a drunken teenager he was attempting to arrest. He was jailed for 15 months in 2006. Released after four months, Major feels he is still serving time as he waits while the Criminal Cases Review Commission considers his case."It has ruined my career. I joined the police straight after graduating with a degree in microbiology, expecting to make steady progress," he says from the Wakefield house his parents remortgaged to pay the £30,000 legal fees.Major claims he paid the price for what the court heard at the second trial was the shambolic state of affairs in the custody section of a Leeds police station. And, nearly six years after the teenager received a series of injuries while in police custody, Major still has no explanation of the whereabouts of hours of CCTV footage which, he says, would clear his name."They took the view they could get rid of one lad or investigate it properly, but that would result in damage to the reputation of the West Yorkshire force," he says.It was in the early hours of 6 September 2003 that Major, who had joined the police three years earlier, first came across the 18-year-old, being attended to by three police community service officers. They feared he was so drunk that his personal safety was at risk, so took him to the waiting room at Millgarth police station, central Leeds, to sober up and await a taxi. It was there, about an hour later, that Major came across him again, this time "gurgling on the floor". He told him the taxi had already gone and that he should either make his way home or risk being arrested."He started swearing. I gave him a warning. Eventually I took my cuff out. From the moment of his cuff going on he instantly exploded, flying up at me," says Major.Five police officers came to Major's aid. After a scuffle, the man was overpowered and led by Major to a police van to be transported to the cells of nearby Bridewell police station.Major's use of "heel strikes" – kicks with his heels – to get the teenager's legs into the van bruised his buttocks and thighs. But the 2006 retrial heard evidence from a fellow police officer that Major repeatedly kicked the teenager in the chest. That was disputed by a police surgeon, a Dr Tuckwell, on the ground that Major's steel-toed boots would have left an obvious mark. There was none."The nil finding of injury … suggests to me that the attack did not happen," Tuckwell told the trial. Major was subsequently cleared on this charge.Major drove the arrested man to Bridewell, where he struggled to get him out of the van. It was alleged in court by another police officer that the teenager was pulled out of the van with such force that he hit the concrete floor head first. Major then kneed him and punched him a number of times. These claims amounted to count 2 of the indictment.He was led into the police station and to cell nine, where his jewellery, personal belongings and the cuffs were removed. At this point, Major says, he was not bleeding apart from a graze to his arm. He left and did not see him again. Major was ordered to hospital to have a face wound, from the blow he received in the Millgarth scuffle, checked."The wounds he received from me were the bruise to the buttock and hamstring when I did the heel strike in the van. That is all. When I left him he wasn't bleeding," Major says.About 40 minutes later the man was found with blood on his head in the cells. He later told a hospital doctor that he had been beaten by more than one officer. He told paramedics he was beaten after asking for a glass of water.An expert witness told the court that the teenager's memory was unreliable. He said he had had a lot to drink, including five quadruple vodka and cokes at the first pub, and could not remember many aspects of that night. An ear, nose and throat specialist, a Dr Knight, told the court that a nosebleed could have been the result of an earlier knock before arriving in the cells.In the hours after the incident, Major was accused by a police officer of punching the teenager, causing his injuries. He was suspended from duty but says he was not overly concerned initially."The Bridewell has cameras everywhere," he says. "Alarms go off if film is not in them. It is not somewhere you commit offences. When I heard the allegations I just told them 'just look at the cameras'. Then they said that at least five cameras weren't recording."That included the cameras covering the parking area.At the second trial, at Bradford crown court, the jury heard that officers at Bridewell failed to follow basic procedures. Judge Roger Scott called the custody suite "a shambles". He criticised senior officers and called the man's custody record "a document of fiction".The first trial jury was unable to reach a verdict. At the second trial, Major was acquitted of assaulting the teenager while putting him in the van. He was convicted of assaulting him while taking him out of the van. He was also convicted, by a majority of 10-2, of the cell assault.In the final days of the trial – too late, he says, to help his defence — Major obtained 13 hours of CCTV footage taken from above the custody officer's desk at Bridewell. The tapes, say Major, provide sufficient evidence to cast doubt over the prosecution testimony.He has a series of further questions. Why could the Crown Prosecution Service find no record of receiving a police file of possible charges against the arrested man? Why were photographs of the waiting area at Millgarth taken nearly two weeks after the incident used in evidence, when images from hours after the assault were available? In the second set, a Perspex sheet covers up red marks on the wall, which, says Major, could have been the teenager's blood. Part of the defence case was that the injuries could have happened before entering the van."The jury came to a verdict on that day on a case that is not the truth. Now we've got video showing that," says Major.The Criminal Cases Review Commission began examining Major's case earlier this year. West Yorkshire police is investigating a complaint by the Major family into its the handling of the case."The matters were examined at the trial and subsequent appeal," a spokesman for the force said. "As a result of a complaint from Mr Major's family they are now subject of ongoing review and investigation by West Yorkshire police professional standards department staff."The Major family are being kept fully aware of the progress of the investigation, which may yet run a number of months."