A sense of hopelessness, a feeling that the last 13 years of peace was only a dream. We have woken again to the reality that has always been Northern Ireland.This bleak mood took hold after two soldiers were killed at Massereene barracks in Antrim by the Real IRA on Saturday, followed by the murder of Constable Carroll on Sunday night by the Continuity IRA, and over the past few days with news of a bomb plot. The soldiers were the first killed in Northern Ireland for 12 years and Carroll was the first policeman murdered in the province since 1998.The hopelessness can only be true for those of us who lived through the "Troubles". Fortunately the young have no past to lapse back into – that is why their views are essential. People in fear and despair say we are going back to the bad old days. But we know that is not possible: we can either move forward by building a new reality or allow others set a more horrific agenda with a grim future. The others in this case are the Continuity IRA and Real IRA, both splinter groups of the IRA, which decommissioned its arms and supports Sinn Féin in a power-sharing executive with their former enemies, the Democratic Unionists.I sense a growing optimism once people had come to terms with the initial shock of the killings. Northern Ireland always appears as two distinct communities, one unionist and Protestant, the other nationalist and Catholic. Something has happened in response to the killings: it is as if there is only one community. People have surprised even themselves. Why is this happening?One answer is all the work which has been carried out on the ground in the last 13 years by various agencies, statuary, voluntary or local. The question for all of us is: can it be sustained? Whilst the people cannot stop the dissidents – only the police can do that – they, the people, can control the context in which the dissidents operate. Northern Ireland's first minister, Peter Robinson, and his deputy, Martin McGuinness, have set the tone for that context. Robinson with his strong determination, McGuinness with his condemnation. McGuinness crossed the Rubicon by saying "These people are traitors to the island of Ireland, they have betrayed the political desires, hopes and aspirations of all of the people who live on this island." The politicians have spoken and the people of Ireland are impressed.The other important ingredient is the loyalist paramilitaries and their response. Over the past 20 years I have been in a position to ascertain the response of loyalist paramilitaries through my various contacts with them. For many years I acted as a channel between them and the Irish government. In their ranks there is a lot of anger and some calls for a reaction, but I am satisfied that there will be none.My most recent contacts with loyalist paramilitaries lead me to believe that they will not retaliate, because if they did it would be against a single community that is speaking with one voice on these atrocities. The loyalists have analysed this difficulty in a sophisticated way and understand the present dynamic. They know that the enemy is no longer simply the Catholic nationalist community. They know that the murdered police constable Stephen Carroll, 48, was a Catholic, as is one of the wounded pizza delivery men, a Pole.There may be more attacks unless intelligence is good and the police, in Northern Ireland and the Republic, can quickly close these groups down. For people like myself – ministers of religion – and politicians, the task is to maintain the cohesion. That will not be easy in the face of various negative voices but it can be done and must be done. It's possible that the Northern Ireland secretary, Shaun Woodward, got it right when he said that they may have the power to take the life of a policeman or two unarmed soldiers, but they do not have the power to stop the peace process.