Police in Cornwall have appealed for more information after calling on the people involved in a firework-related house fire that killed a woman to "do the decent thing and come forward".Mary Fox, 59, died after helping her youngest son, Raum, 17, who has learning difficulties, to jump to safety from an upstairs window but was overcome by the blaze before firefighters could save her.Firefighters arrived within minutes of a 999 call at around 7.15pm on Thursday and found Fox dead in the room from where her son had escaped. After leaping from the two-storey house, Raum ran to alert neighbours that his mother was still trapped inside. He was taken to Treliske hospital, where he was treated for smoke inhalation and is now staying with his eight brothers and sisters.Police began the investigation after the remains of a firework were found behind the front door of the home in Bodmin.Detective Chief Inspector Paul Burgan, of Devon and Cornwall police, said yesterday: "We've received some useful information over the last couple of days, but we're still keen to hear from anybody who thinks they may know something that could help with this investigation."You may think it's not relevant, but that piece of information may prove to be invaluable – please call us."We are investigating some positive leads from the community in Bodmin and are determined to bring whoever did this to justice, to ensure the family get some kind of closure after this tragic incident."He said police were aware that a small number of people in the area were being blamed for a series of crimes, but the inquiry was looking at a "wider picture".Detectives said that they were pursuing several lines of inquiry and had gathered information in house-to-house inquiries.On Saturday, Superintendent Martin Orpe said: "I am appealing to those people involved to do the decent thing and come forward to the police. If not, I am confident from what I have seen, that we will be knocking on their doors shortly.""I would ask them to come forward, and anyone who knows fact in relation to this incident – not rumour, because there is a lot of rumour going around Bodmin – to come forward."Children as young as 12 are the focus of suspicions sweeping the town after claims were made on social networking sites, but police said they needed details and facts. The police said they would look at websites as part of the inquiry."In an incident like this we will use social networking sites to progress our inquiries," Inspector Matt Longman said. "But we cannot say there is anything specific on them that will take the investigation forward at this time."There were also claims that Raum had been the target of bullies, but senior officers spoke to social workers, mental health and housing staff, and said that there was no previous record of the family being targeted or bullied.The remains of a firework were found behind the front door of the three-storey house in a street where gangs of youths have sprayed graffiti and last year set fire to a van and two cars.A neighbour, 33-year-old James Dean, said: "There are about four or five of them, all around 14 years old. They put fear into the whole neighbourhood ... Everyone around here knows who is to blame when something happens. All the kids around here are talking about it and I suspect they know who it was. I blame their parents because they have been taught no respect whatsoever."Fox had eight other children, aged between 20 and mid-30s. They issued a statement on Saturday night, saying their mother might sometimes have been seen as eccentric, but she was popular on the estate. They said: "Our mum devoted her life to us, her nine children, and went without herself to provide the best that she could for us."She was at times, shall we say, eccentric, but she had a sense of humour and was loving and caring." Mrs Fox's daughter Leonie Carter, 31, said: "We knew nothing of the house being targeted; she never mentioned it." Another neighbour, Gary Breslin, 41, said three youths aged between 12 and 16 were seen shouting outside the house as the flames took hold.He said: "We know who these kids are – they are the same group who are always causing trouble. I know that Mary's boy was being bullied. I sometimes drive my kids to school if it is raining and I would see Mary following Raum about 100 yards behind. She did this in case anyone tried to bully him on the way to school."