When in a few days the deadline closes for bids to take over the running of Brixton prison in south London, the Home Office will have to admit that no private company is prepared to take on the jail named earlier this year as one of six penal "hell holes" by the director-general of the prison service. The lack of private interest marks the failure of the first attempt to privatise a state-run jail and comes hard on the heels of a decision to hand back Blakenhurst, one of the first prisons to be run by a private company, to the state. Meanwhile the prison service has been repeatedly successful in winning the contract to run Manchester, formerly Strangeways, prison. The pendulum's swing back towards the state sector not only raises a question mark about whether the game is up for private prisons, but also whether there are wider lessons here about the ability of the private sector to bail out other failing public services. The decision to ask the private sector to bid for Brixton was made personally by Paul Boateng when he was prisons minister. Companies were asked to compete with an in-house prison service team after officials found disgusting conditions in the jail's healthcare centre, allegations of persistent racism, lapses in security and high levels of sickness among staff. At the time Mr Boateng warned that Brixton would be followed by other "failing jails". They were given six months to shape up or face a market test. Birmingham, Exeter and Chelmsford were all mentioned as potential candidates for takeover by private firms. But the failure to generate any private interest in Brixton means that any such future plans will be seen by unions such as the prison officers' association, as empty threats. Private companies - Group 4 and United Kingdom Detention Services (UKDS), among them - turned their back on Brixton for the simple reason that the bill for repair and refurbishment at the jail is simply too high. Parts of the complex date back to 1821 and the prison has no workshops, no education centre and the main gym is outside the prison walls. Mr Boateng is no longer the minister responsible. But in his new role as financial secretary to the Treasury he will understand only too well that the economic case for a private prison sector may have run its course. This month, HMP Dovegate in Staffordshire will open its gates under the management of Premier Prison Services. It will become the 11th private jail out of the 145 prisons in Britain but it must be doubted whether the private sector will ever count for more than say 10% of all prisons. Labour was prepared to tear up its moral opposition to private incarceration on the grounds that a small, private prison sector would cut costs, speed up the building of new jails and put pressure to reform on state prisons hamstrung by the Prison Officers' Association. The gap in cost terms has now almost closed. The chart shows cost per prisoner, but critics have always argued about the methodology - how to compare like with like - and latest comparisons show that on average private prisons are no more than 7-8% cheaper to run. In some cases they are actually more expensive, once an element for repayment of the capital financing charge is included. The most successful private jail, Group 4's Altcourse in Liverpool, is also the most expensive to run. Each of its places costs £57,908 - twice the price of the average state sector prison place. The failure of any of the big four private companies to bid for the failing Brixton prison also demonstrates that there is a limit to how far they are prepared to be used to drive up standards in the public sector. They also privately complain that they see little point being involved if, as in the case of Blakenhurst, they improve conditions and standards only to see the jail returned to public sector management. But when push came to shove the prison service's public sector bid to run Blakenhurst in Worcestershire, which had been a private prison for eight years, was 13% higher on quality but 12% cheaper than the bid from UKDS, which had run the jail. The difference in the Manchester bid between the public and private sector were even greater. The prison service's bid was judged 18% better on quality and 20% cheaper on cost than the nearest private company - again in this case UKDS. Both public sector bids offered to provide more purposeful activity, education, offending behaviour programmes and increased time of out of cell for prisoners. It suggests that innovation is no longer the preserve of the private sector. Although the lack of interest in Brixton probably means that the threat of privatisation to an existing state prison will lose its potency there is still plenty for a private prison company to go at. All new "greenfield" prisons being built are to be financed, designed, built and managed by the private sector. Two more, at Ashford in Kent and at Peterborough are already on the way. The youth justice field also offers new opportunities for private prison companies with 660 "independent" places to be provided within the next five years out of an estate housing 3,800 teenage offenders. And if the United Kingdom market is beginning to lose its attractiveness to private prison operators they have wasted no time looking further afield for profitable opportunities. The latest field for the Group 4 corporate empire is southern Africa. The company last week opened its first prison in South Africa at Bloemfontein and has been invited by the government of Lesotho to build a 3,500-bed central private prison complex to house all the country's prisoners. When completed it will be the world's largest jail. As Group 4 told Lesotho's ministers, the "procurement method of choice" as far as they are concerned is the UK's private finance initiative and should they choose to go down that route the company's consortium is "confident that it can raise the required finance".  Alan Travis is the Guardian's home affairs editor.