She lived the life of a footballer's wife with a fleet of Porsches and Ferraris in the drive, a £100,000 kitchen and a penchant for downing £500 bottles of wine "like water" at Gordon Ramsay's restaurant.But Sharon Bridgewater's fortune wasn't earned by a Premiership husband. Instead, masquerading as a bone fide finance director, she stole more than £2m from her employers which she spent on everything from Caribbean holidays to luxury homes.In the process, the 36-year old from Basingstoke, Hampshire, destroyed one company and dragged another into financial crisis, causing colleagues to lose their jobs. Yesterday Brian Argyle, recorder at Southwark crown court, London, sentenced her to five years in prison.Bridgewater, the court heard, was "a female Walter Mitty" who for almost 10 years lulled her employers into believing she was a capable accountant. She then exploited that trust as cover to amass a fortune which she lavished on domestic luxuries such as a £90,000 entertainment system for her living room and investments in the form of a buy-to-let property empire including a £650,000 converted barn in Essex which featured in a glossy magazine.Robert Sangster, 34, her boyfriend who now works as a graphic designer, was showered with gifts which included an £80,000 Ferrari Spider sports car for his birthday. It was added to Bridgewater's already "jaw-dropping" collection of cars which included a top of the range BMW, and six Porsches, among them a 1955 classic Speedster, the court was told.Sangster lived with Bridgewater and told police and jurors that he was a "kept man" and a "modern-day househusband", despite enjoying extravagances such as flying lessons and her luxury villa in Spain. He was found guilty of perverting the course of justice and given a nine-month suspended sentence.Bridgewater's career as a thief began in 1996 when she secured the job of accounts manager at Dyna Five, a computer hardware firm in Epsom, Surrey. Despite being described in court as little more than "a lapsed accountancy student" she was able to disguise the theft of £25,000 as payments to suppliers and the taxman. Her scam was only exposed when her boss checked the company accounts to find just a few pounds left. The company collapsed.Bridgewater was convicted on eight counts of false accounting and sentenced to 150 hours community service, but this did not deter her from taking another job. She aimed for a position of greater responsibility and was appointed the £78,000-a-year finance director at Hicklin Slade, a London marketing company which works for Camelot, the National Lottery operator.She was so skilled at lying that she even managed to cover up her regular absences to fulfil her community service sentences with the excuse that she was doing charitable work. It was a lie that prepared the ground for a £2m theft.Jurors heard her usual method of spiriting the money away was to transfer funds to a dormant company she had set up years earlier and used in her previous fraud. But other times she "brazenly" paid for luxuries directly from the company account. Dinner at top restaurants, including the Mandarin Oriental in Knightsbridge and Gordon Ramsay's at Claridges, cost up to £2,200. She blew £65,000 on holidays to Barbados, the Maldives, Sydney and Dubai with her boyfriend.Police said her deceit sustained a "lavish lifestyle of a footballer's wife".Even when the company ordered redundancies to cope with its unexplained cashflow problems, Bridgewater continued to steal. Finally, after taking £2m, she felt further thefts could be too risky and got another job.Having set up an internet banking facility, she started work for Universal Sound Principles, a small West End radio recording company, whose owner she persuaded to begin banking online. She then stole £55,000 by making unauthorised withdrawals and wrongful salary payments.The six-year spree ended when Hicklin Slade, her biggest victim, asked auditors to investigate the company's "parlous financial state".Bridgewater admitted 16 counts of theft, two of furnishing false information and one of perverting the course of justice. Passing sentence, the recorder said: "Because of their trust in you they did not check or audit the accounts which you had done and the performance of the company deteriorated because of the losses from your stealing. You sat in meetings as staff were made redundant around you without saying a word."Outside the court, Detective Sergeant Dom Lucas said: "Her actions led to the collapse of a company and the near collapse of two more companies."Today's sentencing proves that such excessive greed and blatant disregard for her victims would eventually catch up with her."