  Scotland Yard said Andrew Bridgen had been bailed to return in mid-JulyAndrew Bridgen, the Conservative MP for North West Leicestershire, has been released on bail after being arrested on suspicion of sexually assaulting of a 29-year-old woman.The 46-year-old newly-elected MP was arrested at an address in central London in the early hours of Thursday.It is understood the woman was an employee on the parliamentary estate, but not in Bridgen's office.A spokesperson for the Metropolitan police said: "A 46-year-old man has been arrested on suspicion of sexual assault against a 29-year-old woman at an address in SW1 in the early hours of Thursday 9 June. The man has been bailed to return on a date in mid-July."Bridgen – who is regarded as being on the right of the Conservative party – won the North West Leicestershire seat with a 12% swing from Labour at the 2010 election. A key marginal, it had been held by Labour since 1997. In 2010 there was also a sizeable Liberal Democrat vote.Bridgen has been a low-profile MP since he won the seat in May. He is a member of the regulatory reform committee and holds no other official posts in parliament. His most high-profile intervention came on Tuesday when he defended the Conservatives' NHS reforms, saying: 'If we fail to go through with these reforms, we are caving in to Stalinist protectionist elements."On Tuesday he joined Twitter, where news of his arrest emerged. On his parliamentary website he lists business and enterprise, civil liberties, law and order and the armed forces as his interests.Bridgen is a married father of two. He trained as a Royal Marines officer before returning to his family's successful agricultural business, which sells pre-washed vegetables. He is currently the non-executive chairman of his own company, AB Produce plc. He was previously the east Midlands chairman of the Institute of Directors, and served on the East Midlands Regional Assembly as a business representative.A spokesman for the Conservative party said: "This is a matter for the police."