The fugitive gunman Raoul Moat obtained at least three pay-as-you-go mobile phones as he made detailed plans for the murderous attack on his girlfriend, it was revealed today.The first phone was found dumped last Saturday at the scene of the first two shootings, in Birtley, where Moat is alleged to have shot his former girlfriend, Samantha Stobbart, and killed her new partner, Chris Brown, in Gateshead.The second was used to make two taunting 999 calls to police before and after Moat is alleged to have shot and seriously injured a police officer, David Rathband, in East Denton, Newcastle.The third phone was found today by a member of the public walking on open land in the Rothbury area of Northumberland, where police believe Moat is holed up. Detectives also revealed they had found the lair where the 37-year-old former nightclub bouncer had hidden himself, curled up in grubby duvet.In another extraordinary twist police said they were treating seriously claims that Moat had been spotted walking brazenly down the High Street in Rothbury on Thursday night. The sighting came just three hours after Northumbria's temporary chief constable, Sue Sim, told hundreds of worried villagers at a public meeting: "I'm not saying he's going to be walking down the road with a gun."A woman who made the potential sighting said: "I looked at this man and he stared briefly at me. I caught his eye and I smiled briefly at him before looking away. I carried on walking and immediately thought to myself: 'That looks like Moat.'"His face was thinner than I thought and I couldn't see his hair because he was wearing a cap."She tried contacting friends near to where he was walking."Someone else saw him and thought the same as me, he went straight up to a policeman." Yesterday, villagers craned their necks to view an RAF Tornado jet, fitted with surveillance equipment, as it roared overhead while joining the search of the rugged countryside.A spokesman for Northumbria police, which now has hundreds of armed officers in the area, said that six people had now been arrested on suspicion of helping Moat, including two who had been charged with conspiracy to murder and possession of a firearm.Detectives maintained they were continuing to make progress in their complex and fast-moving inquiryPolice have been criticised for failing to put surveillance on a friend of Moat's who was in contact with the fugitive and later delivered a rambling 49-page letter from him that declared "war" on the police.In the Commons, Glenda Jackson accused the authorities of failing to act on Moat's threats against his former partner because of an institutional reluctance to take domestic cases seriously.The Labour MP said: "Perhaps the largest manhunt in British history would never need to have taken place."Some Rothbury residents were critical of police for being slow to make public details of the black Lexus that was used to ferry Moat around and was recovered in the village. It was not until Tuesday that the police issued the appeal, but crucially the vehicle had first been sighted three days earlier.Police from 14 other forces across the UK have provided marksmen, specially trained search officers, dog teams and specialist vehicles, to assist the county force as its officers comb the national parkland. Scotland Yard sent a team of 40 armed officers from its CO19 unit, including snipers armed with high-velocity rifles and telescopic sights.Throughout today, the police focus turned to Cragside, a National Trust property just over a mile from Rothbury.The sprawling property was closed for the day as a precautionary measure by the trust, apparently at the behest of police, who were advising people to stay indoors with doors and windows locked and to avoid unnecessary leisure activities.Cragside is perched on a rocky crag and is crammed with ingenious gadgets, including Britain's first hydroelectric powered domestic lights. It also boasts the largest rock garden in Britain.Armed officers and dog handlers were stationed around the perimeter as a helicopter hovered overhead. Occasional shouts and dog barks could be heard.Overnight, the helicopter joined the hunt and searchlights were employed after the apparent sightings of Moat. "It went on all night," one resident said. "We heard the helicopter and when we looked out the window there were armed police blocking off the end of our street."Detectives said they are making significant progress in the search "with a number of key developments over the last 24 hours."In a statement, Detective Chief Superintendent Neil Adamson, who is leading the inquiry, said: "There have been some very positive developments over the past 24 hours."He said he was certain that the mobile phones were all used by Moat. He added: "We have recovered valuable information from them and are pursuing numerous leads in connection with this information."The public were warned by police on Thursday night that Moat posed a wider risk, as he had made threats against them. Moat has a northern accent, is 1.9m (6ft 3in) tall with light-coloured cropped hair. CCTV pictures shown this week appeared to show his hair cut into a mohican style.Police said he could be wearing a grey or light blue hooded top, a red or orange T-shirt, dark coloured jeans and white trainers. It is possible that as the search for him enters a second week he looks unkempt. It is thought he has one or two weapons and a large quantity of ammunition.Sim arrived in Rothbury this afternoon, her third visit to the area in three days. In a rallying speech to police officers working in the area she said: "It is very important we are here working with our communities."Referring to Thursday's public meeting, she added: "They were in excess of 250 people supporting you. You are the finest officers in Britain. I'm proud of every single one of you."