In August 2004 the supermarket chain Iceland issued a range of milk cartons bearing the images of missing people. Pictured on one was a bright teenager with a hippyish headscarf, beaming in a blurred black and white photo. For her father, Ian, a retired jazz musician from Essex, the initiative offered a very faint possibility of hearing news of his daughter, who had vanished without trace in 1991."I still dare to hope that one day she'll walk through my door and give me a hug," he said.Three years later, and a full 16 years after his daughter vanished, McNicol finally learned the truth about Dinah's whereabouts.Her decomposed remains were discovered buried in the back garden of a small terrace house in Margate, Kent; and just a few feet away was the body of another murdered girl, Vicky Hamilton, who had disappeared a few months before her.Dinah was 18 when she disappeared while hitch-hiking home from a music festival in Liphook, Hampshire. She had met David Tremlett, then 26, at the festival and the pair had accepted a lift at a petrol station on the A3 from a man who promised to drive her to Brentwood, near her home. Tremlett got out before Dinah, on the M25. She was never seen again.The teenager, who was 4ft 10in tall, grew up in Tillingham, Essex, the fourth of five children born into a farming family. When she was six her mother, Judy, who was 39, was killed in a car crash, an event that was to scar her childhood, according to her father. At first social services wanted to take the children into care, believing a father to be incapable of raising them alone. McNicol had to fight to keep them.A jazz musician in his spare time, McNicol would take his children to gigs with him: "I'd say, 'sit in the car, have Coke and crisps and keep quiet.'"Before Judy's death, he said, they had agreed to bring the children up as individuals, "not as a gang", and Dinah grew into a tomboyish, independent-minded young woman who loved rave music, dressed in home-made or charity-shop clothes and wore her long hair in dreadlocks.She was "ever so popular", according to her father, and friends recalled sitting with her in Chelmsford park in the summer of 1990, listening to Muddy Waters, or dressing up to see the Rocky Horror Picture Show at a Chelmsford cinema, unembarrassed at standing out. One friend described her as "a kind person, a deep person, and a lot of fun to be with".She loved Talking Heads, and would blast the song Once in a Lifetime over and over from her bedroom while studying, said her father. She struggled to get up in the mornings, so he set up a tape recorder outside her bedroom door with the volume turned as high as possible.She had had a few boyfriends, her father said, but none had been too serious. She had been determined to do well in her A-levels and had won a place at Sussex University to study religion and philosophy. First, though, she wanted to take a year out to earn some money.Torpedo Town, a free dance festival organised by a loose-knit, anarchic group on Bramshot common in Liphook, was the first such event she had been to, and her father, by his own admission quite protective, had been nervous, "but I trusted Dinah not to do anything stupid and I wanted her to know I trusted her".Initially at least he did not worry when she failed to turn up after the festival, thinking she had gone to her grandmother's or to visit her older sister, Sarah, who was living in London. After a week he called Sarah, who had not heard a thing.Once the police became involved, they discovered that every night for 10 days following her disappearance, Dinah's cash card had been used in a chain of towns in the south-east – Hove, Brighton, Portslade, Margate and Ramsgate.She had more than £2,700 in her account, a sum received as compensation after their mother's death. The withdrawals continued until only a few hundred pounds remained.Her father chose to shield his other children from the details of the investigation, to the detriment, he now believes, to his own health. "All the normal stuff, like cooking, shopping, going to the pub, became impossible," he said later.He was made redundant from his job as a chicken farmer, and slipped into a profound depression, at one point planning suicide. People in the village, not knowing what to say, would cross the street to avoid him."In the end I went into both pubs in the village and said really loudly 'I don't mind if you speak to me'. It was much better after that." He has thrown away Dinah's clothes, but kept her books, and has never moved from the house where she grew up, just in case she ever decided to come home. He has had a heart attack and four strokes since his daughter vanished."Anything that comes on TV or the radio, something about a body being found, I think, Oh my God, no," he told the Guardian shortly before Dinah's remains were confirmed to be hers. "My heart panics. When they say it was a boy or something, I feel sad for the parents but I also feel really glad it's not Dinah. But now I'm getting on a bit, I would like to die knowing where she is, and have it finished."Last May, still without a body to bury, he held a memorial service for his daughter at which, in a tremulous voice, he sang the jazz standard Dinah, after which she had been named. "Somebody once said to me, 'Think up, don't think down'," he said after the service. "And it actually works. 'Feel joyful and happy' – and I am joyful and happy."