The struggles which Cambridgeshire's small police force has faced running the massive hunt for two missing 10-year-olds raises, as we argued three days ago, the need to look again at a national investigating unit for special crimes: a British FBI. Since then it has been taken up by other commentators including John Stalker, former deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester police. Yet before this idea gathers too much momentum, the counter arguments need examining. Child abduction is an extremely rare event. On average there are only six children abducted by strangers every year. (Children have a less than one in a million chance of being killed by a stranger.) Some years there are none at all. Just what would this team of specialist paedophile chasers be doing between these offences?Or consider again what has been happening in Cambridgeshire. Yes there have been mistakes. Fortunately some big ones - including those listed three days ago - have not turned out to have serious consequences. Within eight days a Metropolitan police murder review unit was examining the Cambridgeshire investigation. It should probably have been called in earlier, but help is now being provided from 20 forces, lifting the team to 320 officers and 100 civilians. Other local forces - like Surrey's which has been searching for Milly Dowler since March - have fed in their lessons. The Cambridgeshire police have been open to all suggestions, including offering to talk to the abductor on a secret line. Then there are the two national databases - at Bramshill police training college and Derbyshire - which are always on standby. Derbyshire's computer system contains details of all young people killed by paedophiles since 1960. The Guardian began campaigning for a national crime squad in the 1980s. A national criminal intelligence service was set up in 1992 targeting criminal gangs and an operational national crime squad followed in 1998. Both made sense. Organised crime does not recognise national borders, let alone those of 43 police services. Left uncontrolled, it pollutes legitimate businesses - law, accountancy and banking. But adding paedophiles to these units' targets looks less productive. It would run the danger of creating another bureaucratic tier. Internal police politics is bogged down by the chase for higher ranking posts. Senior officers have more than enough already.