A consultant surgeon killed two patients through his "gross negligence" and then stole a register logging surgery at an operating theatre at his hospital, it was alleged yesterday.Police investigating the deaths of Jean Robinson and Dorothy McPhee at the Royal Victoria hospital in Blackpool in 1995 found the register in the loft of surgeon Steven Walker's home years later, an Old Bailey jury was told. Both deaths had been put down to natural causes at the time.Mr Walker denies two counts of manslaughter, theft and perverting the course of justice but Rebecca Poulet QC, prosecuting, said the operations should never have taken place. "The deaths of these two patients were unlawful because they occurred as the result of grossly negligent treatment they received at the hands of the defendant."Mr Walker, a consultant surgeon at the hospital since April 1995, was suspended in January 1999. Mrs Robinson, 66, had been referred to him after being diagnosed with a colon disease. In October 1995 he examined her bowel to consider whether to remove a benign polyp. During the examination her bowel was perforated.Mrs Robinson had to have an emergency operation. She did not leave intensive care and died after a further operation three weeks later.A month later Mr Walker operated on 71-year-old Mrs McPhee. She had been diagnosed with bowel cancer in 1994 and had undergone an operation by another surgeon.The following year, however, she was referred to Mr Walker after a tumour was found on her liver. He had told colleagues he was expert in liver surgery.Ms Poulet said: "In the course of the operation Mrs McPhee suffered massive and catastrophic blood loss. She died very shortly afterwards."The prosecutor told the jury that Mr Walker's "standard of care fell short of what should be expected of a reasonably competent consultant surgeon of his experience"."The patient is entitled to expect that all doctors should recognise the limit to their professional competence."Ms Poulet said that at the time of the deaths, "the consultant was left to make his own decisions regarding the management of his patients and was not questioned to any extent by his colleagues".The coroner had certified both deaths as due to natural causes but in 2001 the same coroner invited Lancashire police to investigate the circumstances of the deaths. Mr Walker was charged with manslaughter in June 2003.The operations register for 1995 and early 1996 was supposed to remain in the operating theatre and "certainly never to leave hospital property," Ms Poulet said.The case continues.