Women assaulted by their partners could be granted a right of anonymity in court similar to the protection given to rape victims, under a government crackdown on domestic violence.The step, intended to encourage more women to press charges amid significant under-reporting of domestic violence, is being considered by ministers together with plans for tougher sentencing and new criminal offences. The solicitor general, Harriet Harman, unveiling plans for legislation and proposals for a review of the way courts and other agencies deal with domestic violence, yesterday promised a "culture change" in which any lingering acceptability of domestic violence would be banished. Between a quarter and a third of murders of women are committed by present or ex-partners, and domestic violence accounts for almost a quarter of violent crime. The proposals, announced yesterday at a conference of prosecutors in London, represent an attempt by Ms Harman, a former minister for women, to kick-start the government's stalled drive to tackle domestic violence, introduced three years ago. The minister has already intervened successfully over an excessively lenient sentence for domestic assault, and promised to continue to exercise her powers of appeal. Among the expected new measures are the introduction of restraining orders which courts could impose during sentencing to ensure violent men stayed away from their partners, either in addition to or in place of a custodial sentence. Campaigners warn that abusers jailed for assault frequently return to harass their partners after leaving prison. Ms Harman also wants to see a new criminal offence of breaching a non-molestation order - the orders granted by civil courts to stop an abusive ex-partner harassing a woman. Such an offence already exists in Northern Ireland. The extension of the right to anonymity is also under consideration, though is expected to prove more controversial. Ms Harman backs the idea, arguing that women frequently refuse to go through a criminal trial for fear of exposure of their children. The move would, inevitably, also ensure the anonymity of the male partner in court, but the solicitor general believes women are less interested in public shame of a violent husband than in justice and in their immediate safety. The Women's Aid Federation, the domestic violence campaign group, yesterday welcomed the package of announcements, but cautioned that moves to grant anonymity to women victims should be addressed carefully, in order to ensure they were not prevented from seeking help if the legal process failed them. Since her appointment a year ago, Ms Harman has made clear her determination to address domestic violence. Abuse by partners happened at all levels in society, she added. The case referred to the appeal court by Ms Harman, which saw a non-custodial sentence increased to a six-month jail term, concerned a university professor who had broken his wife's ribs, punctured her lungs, sexually assaulted her and threatened to kill her. "It's not men burgling to feed their crack habit," Ms Harman said. "Domestic violence happens in all walks of life. We must target those people who think they can be criminals at home and get away with it." The conference is also discussing pilot schemes being run by the crown prosecution service and Metropolitan police to develop "murder reviews" following domestic killings. In the reviews, similar to inquiries carried out after child murders, all agencies which have come into contact with the family will share notes in an attempt to find out how procedures can be improved to prevent further deaths.