The police investigations which preceded the sensational collapse of two royal butlers' trials were fundamentally sound and there were no flaws that needed "urgent and immediate attention", an external review publish yesterday concluded.Though the 44-page review by Bill Taylor, a former Met officer, of the inquiries into Paul Burrell and Harold Brown deliberately did not name any of the officers involved, its findings will be interpreted as a vindication of the work of the Scotland Yard detectives at the centre of the cases, including Commander John Yates and Detective Chief Inspector Maxine de Brunner. The Met Commissioner, Sir John Stevens, seemed anxious to draw a line under the saga yesterday, insisting that relations between the police and Buckingham Palace were "as good as they have ever been in our history with the royal family". Speculation that the acquittals of Mr Burrell and Mr Brown last year on theft charges had caused bitter- ness between them was "ill-informed", he said. He rounded on reporters who suggested that the review was bland and turgid. "I expect people are looking for blood on the carpet," he said. "Sometimes the facts are things that have to be accepted. "The bottom line is that this is the report. If there is no story, if there is not something exciting, then I'm sorry. That's how it is." Sir John ordered the review in December when the case against Mr Brown collapsed. He was the second butler to be charged with stealing items belonging to the royal family. Weeks earlier the trial of Princess Diana's former butler Mr Burrell was halted after the intervention of the Queen. Mr Burrell had been charged with stealing 300 items belonging to the late princess. The Queen's recollection that he had mentioned to her five years earlier that he intended to take some of her possessions for safekeeping completely undermined the prosecution case. In the brouhaha that followed relations between the Met and Buckingham Palace soured. Sir Michael Peat, Prince Charles's private secretary, gave an unprecedented on-the-record briefing in which he appeared to blame the police for the trial fiasco. But the criticism has not been repeated. Sir Michael's own report into the conduct of palace officials, published last month, avoided the issue completely. Mr Taylor's review offered no criticism of either the police or the palace. At a press briefing yesterday he said his terms of reference did not permit him to "apportion responsibility for success or failure". He recommended that the police and the royal family should conduct their own review of protocols for "handling allegations of criminality" from within the royal household. Sir John said this was already under way. Mr Taylor refused to be drawn on whether police officers of Scotland Yard's special enquiry team misled Prince Charles and Prince William about the quality of the evidence against Mr Burrell. "I'm not in the business of opinion," he said. He also refused to be drawn on whether he thought Scotland Yard officers had behaved too deferentially towards members of the royal family. Mr Taylor said his review was not a thorough reinvestigation of the inquiries. "This review was about a period of time. That period of time has passed. It's water under the bridge. Nothing radical or unexpected was found," he said. "No individual is mentioned in the report and nothing in the report should be seen as a direct or indirect comment on any individual." Sir John said the report, which made 10 mostly administrative recommendations, would be considered and acted upon. "It's now a matter for the Metropolitan police to draw on this, learning if the need should arise in future cases. "I want to make it absolutely clear that the special enquiry team, the officers concerned in the inquiry, have my full support. "They quite rightly have not spoken out about these matters which should now be left to lie."