Television adverts in Arabic appealing for fresh sightings of Madeleine McCann will be screened across Morocco as her parents cling to the belief she may be alive in North Africa.Despite the disappointment of last week's misleading sighting of a blonde girl in the Moroccan town of Zaio, the McCanns believe that their daughter might be somewhere in the country.As the campaign to track down the four-year-old gains new momentum on the 150th day since she vanished, scores of billboards in villages and supermarkets featuring the face of the girl will also appear this week throughout the most remote districts of Portugal and Spain to jog the memory of anyone who may have missed her disappearance.The latest attempt by the McCanns to find their daughter coincides with a scathing attack by Richard Branson on the Portuguese media over its coverage of the Madeleine case. Speaking for the first time since it emerged that he has donated £100,000 to Kate and Gerry McCann to help meet their legal costs, the billionaire founder of Virgin also criticised the country's police. 'The Portuguese press have behaved abysmally, fed inaccurate stories by the Portuguese police, which all turned out to be a load of garbage,' he told The ObserverThe latest lurid stories emanating from Portugal include claims that the child's body was stored in a fridge and moved to 'various locations' around the resort of Praia da Luz before being placed in the boot of her parents' hired car and dumped.Branson has been in regular touch with the couple, who returned to the UK last month but remain official suspects under Portuguese law. He compared Kate McCann's case to the plight of mothers who have been wrongly imprisoned in Britain for allegedly killing their babies. 'I've never doubted their innocence and I've seen this sort of situation before,' Branson said, adding that he has 'helped a bit behind the scenes' with high-profile cases involving cot deaths, but declining to name the women he has assisted. 'We've got a very similar situation here,' he added. 'I just felt they needed a helping hand - a young couple with enormous pressures on them.'They didn't have good legal advice and they had a junior Portuguese lawyer. I knew that senior lawyers in Portugal thought what was going on was ghastly... so getting the most senior in Portugal on their side I think is very important.'Closer to home, Gerry McCann thanked the British people who have supported the family. 'The support and kind words we have received from the local villagers has also helped to make our return that bit easier,' he wrote yesterday in his blog from the family's home in Rothley, Leicestershire.The investigation into the four-year old's disappearance in May has attracted huge interest from around the world, partly as a result of the McCanns' determination to use the media to keep the story in the public eye. Some observers have criticised that tactic and others have accused the British press of acting irresponsibly by publishing stories pilfered from the Portuguese press, but Branson praised British newspapers, saying 'I actually think the British press have behaved remarkably well.'Branson is also believed to be encouraging wealthy individuals to contribute to a fund set up to help meet the couple's legal costs. Brian Kennedy, a double-glazing businessman who owns the Latium Group and Sale Sharks rugby club, is paying the salary of the McCanns' spokesman Clarence Mitchell, who gave up his civil service job to work full-time for the couple.Branson previously contributed to a £2.6m fund set up by wealthy donors for information leading to Madeleine's safe return. Others who gave money to the Find Madeleine fund include Harry Potter author JK Rowling. A spokesman for the Virgin boss confirmed that he had donated £100,000 after the McCanns said they would not use the original fund to pay for their legal costs after being named suspects. Ten days ago it was announced that the McCanns will not face further questioning over their daughter's disappearance after the Portuguese prosecution service ruled the police did not have enough evidence.