In these straitened times, the legal system is not exempt from the need to find savings, but we all have a duty to achieve that in ways that do not put at risk the integrity of our justice system. Because it involves lawyers, cuts to legal aid do not often generate the same level of public anxiety as cuts to other types of public services.But they way the government is going about this should worry us all. Legal aid is crucial in ensuring those truly guilty of crimes are convicted, after due process, and those innocent are able to clear their names, by ensuring that access to legal representation is available for everyone, regardless of ability to pay. Tinkering with this system should be only done with great care as the removal of an individual's liberty is one of the state's most important powers.Major miscarriages of justice have occurred because of the absence of proper legal representation. These have happened within living memory, but Chris Grayling either doesn't know this or has forgotten. We cannot afford to have the confidence of the public, victims and witnesses in our justice system undermined because the wrong people are being found guilty and the real criminals are wandering the streets.Being reliant on legal aid is probably inconceivable to most of us. But this is no different from other branches of the welfare state established at the same time as our legal aid system – being diagnosed with a major illness and needing the NHS, or losing a job and needing the support of social security. If you were arrested on suspicion of committing a criminal offence or facing a trial, you would not want a second-rate system, or be forced to accept whatever representation you are given regardless of quality.The current justice secretary likes to have us believe that this is about a lot of ambulance-chasing overpaid lawyers, milking the taxpayer. But for many of those working in this area, it couldn't be further from the truth. They don't go into this bit of the legal profession to make their millions, instead work in an unglamorous yet rewarding area. The reality is that Grayling is making the most of exploiting the legal profession's image problem as cover for his real priority – demonstrating to his own backbenchers his credentials as a budget-slasher.But his proposals aren't simply a win-win for his budget-cutting aims. I have seen no sensible attempt to quantify the displacement of costs on to other parts of the legal system that will probably occur due to, say, more miscarriages of justice. Nor has he made any case for why a competitive landscape of local providers replaced with a small number of centrally commissioned monopoly providers is a good thing. The expertise and strong working relationships that exist between lawyers, the CPS, police and the courts in local areas would be a loss that the Ministry of Justice has simply ignored. And I admit that the prospect of the same companies delivering legal representation that run probation, prisons and prisoner transfer fills me with horror at the serious conflicts of interest that would arise.Legal aid is one arm of our welfare system, and as such it should be concentrated on those who really need it the most. Those who can pay their legal fees should do so, and wealthy criminals should fund legal bills from their frozen assets. But salami-slicing cuts of the nature proposed by the government risks the integrity of our justice system. Quality of provision will be replaced by quantity of cases delivered. Increased pressure to plead guilty – even if the individual is innocent – will be the outcome, with the risk that a system of state-sponsored miscarriages of justice could devastate confidence in our legal system.Savings must be found in our justice system, as with elsewhere across government. But these proposals have not been properly thought through, risking the integrity of our justice system. This risk has led to hundreds of publicly funded solicitors and barristers descending on Westminster this Wednesday to protest at the government's reforms. We've even seen strikes in a sector not famed for its militancy – a demonstration of the depth of anger in the legal profession.Instead of their proposals, the government should be undertaking a root-and-branch review of our courts, prosecution systems and judiciary to cut out inefficiency and bureaucracy, which anyone who works in this area knows exists. But by not going for this option, the it has chosen a route with scant regard for the consequences.And with Grayling, we have a justice secretary with form – he moved on from Work and Pensions before his work programme unravelled. Anyone who knows our justice system agrees these are ill-thought-through plans that will also fail. Grayling may well have left his current job if and when they do fail, but the consequence would be the undermining of confidence in our justice system. And this would be disastrous for us all.