 Spain The Canary Islands beach town of Aguimes became the first place in Spain to introduce a children's curfew last month after the local mayor decided the under-16s needed more sleep. With children banned from the streets from 11pm, the restriction may seem light by British standards but in Spain it represents a radical break from the freewheeling parenting of the past 20 years. Small children can often be seen on Spanish streets after this hour, especially in the summer. Those caught out in Aguimes, Gran Canaria, are now returned home by the police and their parents can be fined. The measure is being watched by other Spanish towns and cities, where they are concerned about a phenomenon known as the "botellon", which sees squares and parks packed with young drinkers on weekend evenings. "We are pioneers when it comes to dealing with things like this," the mayor of Aguimes, Antonio Morales, boasted when the measure was approved at a town hall meeting six weeks ago. The mayor said the children were staying up so late that it was affecting their schoolwork, and turning them into drug-taking troublemakers. He has also banned public drinking and claims that the measures have helped reduce school absenteeism Giles Tremlett  France Half-a-dozen French local authorities have experimented with temporary curfews banning unaccompanied minors from the streets at night following a favourable ruling last year by the country's highest administrative court. Until last year's ruling by the conseil d'état, attempts to introduce curfews were generally overturned by French local courts on the grounds that they infringed freedoms enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. The councils that did impose curfews, including Orleans, Cannes and Nice, restricted them to the under-13s and to certain parts of town. More are expected to introduce limited bans this summer. Opponents said they failed to address the causes of juvenile delinquency and argued that the councils imposing them should be investing in family education and alternative youth activities. Those in favour said drastic measures were required to combat surging street crime and pointed to a curfew in Antibes two years ago that helped reduce juvenile delinquency by more than 15%. Jon Henley