Juries in trials for a range of offences under the Theft Act or for child sex offences may be told if a defendant has previous convictions in the same group of crimes, under proposed legislation unveiled by the government yesterday.Under an order laid before parliament, which has to be debated by both houses, judges will be able to order that juries should be told if a defendant standing trial for an offence in one of these groups had an earlier conviction for an offence in the same group. An offence for burglary, for example, would be considered relevant if a defendant was charged with theft. Provisions in the Criminal Justice Act 2003 which come into force in December will allow much wider disclosure of previous convictions and other "bad character" in criminal trials generally. At present such evidence is inadmissible unless a defendant is alleged to have carried out repeated crimes in a "strikingly similar" way. A Home Office spokesman said the two categories had been chosen for special treatment because these were crimes where there was a propensity to repeat the offence - making it more likely that previous convictions would be relevant. But the defence would still be able to argue that the previous convictions should not be admitted because prejudice against the defendant would lead to an unfair trial. Research with mock juries has shown that jurors are likely to believe a defendant guilty if they know he has committed a similar offence in the past, particularly a sexual offence against children. The home secretary, David Blunkett, said the measure would allow juries to have greater access to information about previous convictions and other types of misconduct "without unduly prejudicing the fairness of the trial". Generally, evidence about a defendant's bad character has been inadmissible in trials and disclosing such information to a jury would usually lead to the abandonment of the trial and a retrial ordered by the judge. "Trials should be a search for the truth and juries should be trusted with all the relevant evidence available to help them to reach proper and fair decisions," said Mr Blunkett. "Bad character" is defined to include not only previous convictions but other current charges faced by the defendant, and "relevant evidence of disposition" such as an admitted sexual interest in children. The act, which will apply in crown courts and magistrates courts, will allow prosecutors to argue for the introduction of such evidence in criminal trials generally, if they can show that its value as evidence outweighs the prejudice it may create. Courts will have discretion on whether or not to allow previous convictions to be made known. The Law Society said the decision to bring in the reform in December, rather than next spring as originally planned, would lead to "chaos in the courts" because there was not enough time for training judges. Barry Hugill, of the human rights group Liberty, said the measure was sure to lead to miscarriages of justice. "With the best will in the world, most jurors would find it very difficult not to be influenced by admission of previous convictions," he said. Rod Dalley, vice-chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said: "On too many occasions my colleagues have watched the devastation and anger on the faces of victims and the astonishment of juries as a whole catalogue of relevant previous convictions are read out at the end of a trial as the defendant walks free."