Police launched a murder investigation after a young woman abducted from her home in east London was found dead in an abandoned car.The 20-year-old was pronounced dead minutes after she was discovered in a grey Fiat Stilo in Hackney, east London, having suffered stab wounds.Police said they were awaiting formal identification but believed that the woman was Kirsty Treloar, of Hackney. She is thought to have been kidnapped from the semi-detached house by a suspect who fled the scene in a grey Fiat Stilo before the arrival of police.Police and the ambulance service were called at around 7.10am to reports of a disturbance. A 22-year-old man and a 24-year-old woman were taken from the house to hospital with stab wounds. The man is said to be in a stable condition and the woman was treated for a minor injury. A month-old baby girl who police said was in the house at the time of the incident was also taken to hospital as a precaution.Just over an hour after the initial reports, at 8.30am, police and ambulance crews were called to a street in Hackney, where a grey Fiat Stilo had been found abandoned with the injured woman inside.She was pronounced dead at 8.34am, a police spokesman said.A tarpaulin covered one of the ground-floor windows at the house as officers examined the scene. Police have revealed no details about the suspect but said inquiries are continuing.Neighbours living on Brownlow Road described hearing a "hysterical" cry coming from the property at around 6am.A woman living close to the three-storey home described how she was woken at around 5.30am before hearing "a female sounding extremely distressed".The woman, 45, who did not give her name, added: "I don't know what woke me up. It was some time at around six or just after that I heard a noise. I thought it might be foxes fighting, which can sound quite human."Then I thought, no, it's definitely not, it sounded like a young woman in distress. It was very short-lived and stopped quite abruptly. It sounded like she was a bit hysterical."A retired couple, Mary and David Ward, said they were shocked to hear what had happened at the property so close to their home.Mr Ward, 70, added: "It's a terrible shock. We couldn't believe all this happened, it's a real tragedy."The area is pretty good, really – we've lived here nearly 30 years and it's the first time anything like this has occurred."We have never had any trouble – we didn't know the family, but the young girl seemed to be very nice when we saw her to say hello to."Another neighbour in Brownlow Road, who did not want to be named, said he heard what sounded like a window breaking early this morning and a person shouting: "Please, please, please."