One of the jurors in the Jill Dando murder trial has spoken out for the first time about her doubts over the conviction of Barry George, saying she felt "outraged" after leaving the court.Janet Herbert said she believed she had been "tricked" and that she felt compelled to go public with her concerns about the case because "I couldn't live with myself if I didn't".Ms Herbert was speaking as part of a new BBC documentary on the popular television presenter's murder, which claims to have unearthed new evidence casting doubt on George's conviction.The programme contains an interview with a second, unidentified juror, who alleges that jury members discussed the case outside the jury room, despite the directions of the judge.It also features analysis by an expert on firearms discharge residue which casts doubt on a crucial element of forensic evidence used to prosecute George.The documentary further claims that one witness discussed the case with a detective on the inquiry team, with whom she was having an affair, before she gave evidence in court. George, 46, was sentenced to life in July 2001 after being found guilty by a majority of 10 to one of shooting the 37-year-old BBC News, Crimewatch and Holiday presenter on the steps of her home in Fulham, south-west London, in April 1999.George, who claims his conviction is unsafe, lost an appeal in July 2002. The Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) is currently considering whether to refer his case back to the court of appeal and will announce its decision soon.The centrepiece of the BBC Panorama documentary, Jill Dando - The New Evidence, is an interview with one of the jurors - an extremely rare occurrence as there are strict laws about what jurors can say post-trial.Speaking about her concerns over George's conviction, Ms Herbert said: "I just felt shocked that on that little evidence, anybody could be locked away for the rest of their life. How can you say it was him? It might have been him, don't get me wrong, but you have to reach a verdict on the evidence."Ms Herbert telephoned the Old Bailey, late on the day the trial ended, and left a message on the court's answering machine. "I couldn't think who else to talk to," she told the programme. "I just needed to say to somebody, 'This is how I feel, surely I shouldn't came back like this, surely I should come back thinking I've done my duty, I can go off and live my life'. But I didn't feel any of that."I was very, very, very angry when I left that court. I was almost outraged. That's how I felt. I felt tricked really."The jury spent part of the weekend before they delivered their verdict, in a hotel together. In the documentary, another juror, who speaks anonymously, admitted there was "chat" about the case away from the jury room."To expect a jury not to discuss what they've been doing for the last eight weeks while they're at (a) hotel or whatever, is, I think, unreasonable, so I couldn't put my hand on my heart and say there wasn't discussions about what had gone on, but there certainly wasn't deliberations," he said.George's solicitor, Jeremy Moore, tells the programme that they will be asking the CCRC for a "full investigation" of what went on during the jury's deliberations.The documentary also consults a forensics expert on the tiny particle of gunshot residue found in George's coat pocket.Professor Marco Morin claims the particle could have originated from another source and that on its own, it was not sufficient to link him to the murder.Another expert, Janine Arvizu, a forensic quality auditor in the Unites States, said firearms discharge residue was "not reliable" evidence and suggested it could have got on George's coat through contamination.The programme also features an interview with a welfare rights adviser, Susan Bicknell, who claims she saw George at a disability rights centre on the morning of Miss Dando's murder, just 19 minutes after she was shot. This apparently would have meant he could not have carried out the killing.However, the programme is likely to attract controversy as it is presented by a man, Raphael Rowe, who himself is a victim of a miscarriage of justice. Mr Rowe was jailed for life, along with two other men for a series of crimes, including the murder of hairdresser Peter Hurburgh and several robberies near the M25 on the night of December 15 1988.His first appeal was dismissed, but after the case was referred back to the court of appeal in 1999 by the CCRC, his conviction was quashed. The programme makes no mention of this.Asked if his experiences might have affected his objectivity, Mr Rowe, now a reporter on BBC Radio 4's Today programme, said: "I refute that. I would say my experience and knowledge brings something fresh to something as sensitive as this."