A customs officer killed himself because he feared he was going to be made the fall guy by police for important heroin cases that went wrong, the Guardian has discovered.Amjad Bashir, 37, was found hanged by his wife, Farida, in the garage of his Middlesbrough home in April. His family say he was a "lowly officer" who killed himself over an inquiry into a drugs operation later called into question. Customs and excise - whose elite enforcement arm, the national investigation service, is facing two major police inquiries, disclosed by the Guardian yesterday - has been battered by the collapse of prosecutions and a series of damning government reports into its competence. Defence lawyers have described the agency as "out of control". NIS tactics have been criticised by judges, who are steadily quashing convictions or ordering retrials - sometimes even where defendants had been persuaded to plead guilty. One in 10 NIS staff in Leeds is currently suspended. A four-year police investigation, Operation Brandfield, into drug smuggling cases is due to report to the crown prosecution service at the end of the year. But a second inquiry, by Scotland Yard, into customs' questionable tactics against the black market in untaxed spirits, has only just begun. These are massive blows to an organisation that traded on a "whiter-than-white" image during headline-grabbing tales of police corruption in the 1970s and 1980s. It has been difficult to report the slow-motion disaster inside an underfunded and undersupervised customs for the past five years because so many cases have been going through the courts, with accompanying reporting restrictions. Even now, pending trials limit what can be revealed. A veteran customs investigator in the north of England was originally the police's most important target. In 1998 officers from the south-east regional crime squad launched an undercover operation. An informant said he had been approached to take part in a sting involving bogus drug importations. After early failures to make progress, the customs veteran was heard on an intercept talking about a drugs case. The Operation Brandfield team went on to investigate a whole series of events in Pakistan. Two prosecutions involving 55kg of heroin had collapsed in 1998 after a drug smuggler called Hussein Shah claimed that drug liaison officers in Pakistan had induced him to set up potential drug dealers in the UK. In the late 1980s, customs began to post drug liaison officers to embassies round the world to cultivate informants. They refined a technique called "controlled deliveries". A DLO in Pakistan would arrange for drugs to be bought and flown into the UK. His informant would then contact the buyers and arrange the transfer under customs supervision in the hope of catching both the Pakistani suppliers and British customers. Under strict guidelines, customs are only allowed to facilitate the completion of an existing plot. Neither customs, nor an informant, "should counsel, incite or procure the commission of a crime". Most importantly, "he must on no account act as an agent provocateur". The guidelines say customs "must never commit themselves to a course which, whether to protect an informant or otherwise, will constrain them to mislead a court". Reckless However, after an earlier drugs case had collapsed, Mr Justice Foley had commented presciently that the NIS had "a culture, a climate, of carelessness and recklessness - a catalogue of flawed procedures, misleading requests, illegalities and incompetence". Paul Evans, a former MI6 head of station in Vienna, was brought in from outside in 1999 to make reforms. Another outsider, merchant banker Richard Broadbent, replaced the retiring customs chairwoman, Valerie Strachan. But cases continue to unravel. The criminal cases review commission, which investigates possible miscarriages of justice is now reviewing "controlled delivery" convictions, including that of Hussein Shah. Two other cases are due to reach the court of appeal early next year. Last July a man who pleaded guilty in Scotland's biggest heroin bust walked free after West Midlands investigators disclosed that some of the customs officers were under investigation. Customs had allowed a 2kg "sample" given to Shaukat Ali by the informant to go missing and his lawyers claimed that Mr Ali had been lured into accepting heroin. Operation Brandfield has now examined at least 11 major operations - most of them so-called "controlled deliveries" believed to involve the importation of up to 200kg of heroin into the UK by customs, some of which is known to have gone missing and ended up on the streets. It is not just NIS drug cases that are coming apart at the seams. The same evidence of a reckless modus operandi now threatens to unravel numerous convictions of people for evasion of alcohol duty. On July 26, the convictions of eight men were overturned on appeal. A bonded warehouse called London City Bond and its participating informant owner, Alfred Allington, had between 1996 and 1998 alone, encouraged under customs direction over £300m of alcohol to be diverted in about 40 different scams. The appeal court said bluntly that an NIS investigator had lied about this to the court and so had his participating informant. Scotland Yard's specialist inquiry squad is now investigating. Customs and excise remains relatively unaccountable. It retains the power to conduct its own prosecutions, unlike the police. The Gower and Hammond report of 2001 identified cutbacks in the customs' solicitors office and a massive increase in its workload. It mentioned a "tendency of investigators to bypass" lawyers and the identification of an "investigators' culture of secrecy" that caused them to "withhold important information from their lawyers". At the same time customs became more business friendly under John Major's government. Red tape was cut and the emphasis shifted to facilitating trade. As customs officers were pulled back from the ports and warehouses and staff cut, the organisation became more reliant than ever upon investigations to catch criminals.