Boy C, the prosecution's 17-year-old star witness, went from suspect to crucial informant, with remarkable ease. He was forthcoming with information from the beginning, even though he was initially arrested as a suspect.He admitted to police that Sean Mercer gave him the murder weapon — a Smith and Wesson revolver — 20 minutes after Rhys was shot dead. He took the gun, wrapped it in a carrier bag, and hid it under blankets in a dog kennel in his garden. Five days later, it was moved to the loft after a 16-year-old defendant called at his home.He told police he was scared to say no to Mercer "because you think to yourself, 'Well, he might have done that to a little kid, so what could he do to me?'"Five weeks after the murder, Boy C and his family went on holiday to Florida. During this time, police raided his home. A cousin phoned him to tell him what was happening while he was watching a dolphin show at Seaworld with his family. He broke down crying.Police had found the murder weapon, and another gun, a converted imitation Walther PPK blank cartridge self-loading pistol and ammunition hidden in carrier bags in the loft.Boy C was arrested at Manchester Airport when he returned home on October 6. During 12 interviews with detectives over three days, he gave a full account of the circumstances leading to the firearms and ammunition being found. Police questioned him further in November, January and April.The CPS were originally going to charge him with firearms offences but later decided to offer him immunity from prosecution provided he complied with conditions including a requirement to attend court and give a truthful account.He accepted those terms and entered into an immunity agreement. Soon after this, the CPS decided there was sufficient evidence to charge Mercer with murder after it had painstakingly built up its case. However, the prosecution pointed out that Boy C first gave his account of events long before he was offered immunity.In his statement read to the court, Boy C's brother-in-law said: "At the villa [in Florida], [Boy C] got a phone call and went outside."He came in and said 'they've found two guns'. Then he physically collapsed on the floor and was shaking."Later, I asked him why he had two guns in the house. He said 'I can't tell you. I'm too scared'."I asked him if he had anything to do with the shooting of that little lad in Croxteth and he said 'No, I swear on the baby's life'.In court, an exchange between Tim Clark, cross-examining Boy C showed how nervous he was.Clark: "You didn't ask to be involved in this did you?"Boy C: "No sir."Clark: "If you had refused Sean Mercer's demands, I would imagine you would have faced serious retribution?"Boy C: "Yes sir."Clark: "Sean Mercer told you what to do, you were not given a choice were you?"Boy C: "No sir."Boy C told police Mercer had phoned him on Christmas Day. "He was just asking and saying 'Tell your mum I am sorry. I've heard you've moved but I hope you haven't moved too far. Don't think no one will be following you or anything.'""I thought they would be phoning saying horrible stuff. Saying where'd you live, you best not grass and things like that. I thought he was acting the innocent one in case the police were listening."