Police and court officials have been accused of allowing a fraudster who bankrolled the Liberal Democrats to skip the country and evade a court case.Michael Brown, who was convicted in his absence on Friday of a multimillion pound theft and fraud, had been on bail with instructions to check in with police three times a week. But Brown missed 12 police appointments in the course of a month, after disappearing from his Hampstead home in north London on 30 June, and because of an alleged mix-up between police officers and court officials, a warrant for his arrest was not granted until 29 July. The delay has angered victims of Brown. Tony Brown, head of solicitor firm Bivonas, whose client Robert Mann invested £5m with Michael Brown's company 5th Avenue Partners, said he should have been apprehended in hours - especially since he had jumped bail on a previous occasion. 'Brown was an obvious flight risk and should have been on daily reporting. The police should have responded in hours, not days,' he said.Brown, 42, was found guilty of theft, false information and perverting the course of justice at Southwark Crown Court. A Glasgow-born businessman whose home is in Mallorca, he appeared from nowhere when he approached the Lib Dems in December 2004, asking if they needed money. He gave £2.4m, the biggest donation in the party's history, and dined with party grandees.Questions were soon being asked about whether the donation was legally permissible, because Brown did not live in Britain and was not registered to vote. An Electoral Commission inquiry into the gift was suspended after police began to look into Brown and his companies. While awaiting his trial, Brown stayed in a rented flat in Hampstead. In the weeks before he disappeared, neighbours said he had grown a beard and changed his name to Campbell-Brown. They said that he left his home at 6am in late June, and did not return. One court official told The Observer that the application for a bench warrant had been delayed for four weeks because of a 'mix-up' over paperwork. It is understood that Judge Rivlin, who granted the bench warrant, was critical of the delay. A spokesman for the Metropolitan Police said that after a review of the case it was satisfied it had acted properly.During the trial, it emerged that 5th Avenue Partners had never traded, but had attracted £57m from rich individuals including Martin Edwards, the former Manchester United chairman. Brown spent some of their money on a £2.6m private jet, a £327,000 entertainment system for his Spanish villa, and gave £100,000 to upgrade the library at a gentlemen's club in Belgravia.The court heard that Brown had made the political donation only to give himself a veneer of respectability. He told investors that he was the son of a peer and friend of the Duke of York. In reality, he was the son of a whisky distillery executive and had never met Prince Andrew. Friends of Brown believe he has left the country. The Observer has been shown documents that indicate that someone using Brown's new surname made a number of cash withdrawals in the Caribbean. The Electoral Commission has reopened the investigation into the donation. If it finds that the money came from a company that was not trading, the Lib Dems could be forced to pay it to the Treasury. The Observer revealed in September that the Lib Dems were being sued by Mann for £683,000 for allegedly failing to carry out proper checks on Brown's company before accepting the money.Brown's solicitor, Jamil Ahmud, said yesterday that he had spoken to his client since the trial and will launch an appeal.