A paedophile who committed "grave and disgraceful" attacks on two young girls over 12 years was jailed for life yesterday. Morris Petch, 50, will spend a minimum of 12 years behind bars after a judge condemned him as a serious risk.Edinburgh high court heard that Petch was part of a paedophile gang which started abusing the two girls when they were less than 10 years old. Earlier this year, another abuser, Caroline Dunsmore, 43, was ordered to serve 12 years in jail for her role in the attacks on the girls, one of whom was her daughter, Dana Fowley, now 26. Another man, John O'Flaherty, 50, was sentenced to 13 years for his part.Ms Fowley, who gave evidence, waived her right to anonymity and the court heard that being raped became "a way of life" for her from the age of six. Her stepfather, William King, was prime mover in the paedophile gang but he died before he could be brought to trial.Petch denied his involvement but after a three-day trial earlier this year, a jury convicted him of raping both girls, now aged 25 and 26.He appeared for sentencing yesterday after assessment by a forensic psychologist and heard the judge remark on his lack of remorse. Gail Gianni, his defence counsel, told the court that having considered the psychologist's report, there was nothing she wanted to say.Lord Malcolm told him: "You have been convicted of grave and disgraceful crimes towards young and vulnerable children. It is plain from the assessment carried out on you that you have no remorse for them nor for the damage that you have caused to your victims. Indeed, you are in denial of your crimes and your inability to control your deviant desires."The judge said the sentence reflected Petch's previous conviction for a similar offence, the nature and gravity of the crimes, and the damage caused to his victims. "It is clear from the material now available to the courts that you are a serious risk to the public. Nothing has been said on your behalf, no doubt because there is nothing that can be said."Speaking outside the court, Ms Fowley said she was pleased the case was over and pleased with the sentence, then appealed to be left alone.Defendants Caroline Dunsmore and O'Flaherty had earlier admitted abuse of Ms Fowley in a caravan in Perthshire on a single night between April and June 1990 and to years of earlier sexual abuse and rape of the same girl, aged six, at a house in Edinburgh.Dunsmore went on to give evidence against Petch. The court heard that both girls had contemplated suicide.