A nurse whose "lust" for the thrill of a medical emergency led him to kill two patients and take others to the brink of death was given 17 life sentences yesterday.Benjamin Geen, 25, was told he must serve at least 30 years in prison for his "terrible betrayal" of his patients and of the trust of others in the medical profession. But in a statement read out by his solicitors, Geen insisted he was innocent and vowed to appeal against his two life sentences for two counts of murder and 15 for grievous bodily harm."Whilst I express every sympathy for the victims and their families, I continue to maintain my innocence," he said. "I respect the jury's right to decide, but I do not accept their decision because I am innocent of all counts. I wish to lodge an appeal."During the nine-week trial, Oxford crown court heard that Geen "came alive" and looked "elated" as his patients went into respiratory arrest and he helped doctors to try to save them at the accident and emergency department of Horton general hospital, Banbury.Fifteen patients were brought to the brink of death when he injected them with drugs between December 2003 and February 2004. But David Onley, 75, from Deddington, Oxfordshire, and Anthony Bateman, 65, from Banbury, died shortly after they were admitted to A&E, where Geen was a staff nurse.Described as "gung ho" by senior doctors, Geen said "Oh no, here we go again" as Mr Bateman turned blue and began to fight for breath, said one nurse. As suspicions mounted about the high number of unexplained respiratory arrests on the ward, Geen "boasted" to one doctor: "There is always a resuscitation when I'm on duty."After an internal investigation found Geen always seemed to raise the alarm, the nurse was arrested when he arrived at work.Mr Justice Crane told Geen: "Your purpose was to cause a collapse of the patient in order that you could take part in the revival of the patient. It seems that you relished the excitement of that feeling of taking control, but you must have known quite well that you were playing with their lives."He said he had "no doubt" Geen was planning to continue his lethal attacks - he was found with a loaded syringe when he was arrested."This was a terrible betrayal. You betrayed your nursing and medical colleagues and the vital profession of which you had been a member. Most of all you betrayed the trust of the patients. They were in your care and you intentionally caused them huge damage."A spokesman for Thames Valley police read a statement on behalf of the victims and their families. "We are pleased with the sentence but no sentence will be long enough for what Ben Geen has done," it read."We are all relieved the case is over and we hope we can move on with our lives. All the families would like to thank everyone who has helped bring this case to a conclusion."In a statement, Geen's parents, Mick and Erica, said: "Whilst we express every sympathy for the victims and their families, we are totally convinced of our son's innocence and will continue to campaign on his behalf to find out the accurate and true events of two years ago at the Horton accident and emergency."