A former police constable who worked as a family liaison officer has been jailed for 18 years for raping two vulnerable women.Jeffrey Davies, a father of two, drove one of the victims to the top of a remote Welsh mountain and attacked her, and told the other she would not be believed if she reported him. Davies, 45, was jailed for three years in 2013 for sexually assaulting two victims of domestic violence but was prosecuted again after the women he had raped saw newspaper reports of his conviction. After the latest conviction, the independent police complaints commissioner for Wales, Jan Williams, said: “He was a sex offender hiding within the police service committing fundamental breaches of trust placed in him as a police officer.” Jailing Davies at Cardiff crown court on Friday, Judge Jonathan Furness told him: “The arrogance you displayed is a feature of your behaviour to these women. You felt you were untouchable. You have not shown a shred of remorse or concern to these victims.”Davies, a former South Wales force officer, met one of the women when she collected her teenage sons from the police station. He drove her to the top of a mountain and raped her outside the car. When she told him: “No, please. Why are you doing this?” he replied: “It will make you feel better.”Susan Ferrier, prosecuting, said: “She felt ashamed, confused. She trusted him because he was a police officer. It was something which played on her mind constantly, and she blamed herself for getting in his car.”In a victim impact statement, the woman said the incident had had a “dramatic effect on her life”. She added: “I kept it to myself for 10 years. I didn’t know if anyone would believe me.”Ferrier said the second woman was involved in a short-lived relationship with Davies. Months after it ended, Davies called at the woman’s house while drunk to smoke cannabis with a relative of hers. She allowed Davies to spend the night on her sofa, but he entered her bedroom and raped her.Davies, from Aberdare, south Wales, denied all the charges. After the verdict, Chief Supt Dorian Lloyd, head of South Wales police professional standards department, said: “Our thoughts are with the victims of Jeffrey Davies.  “To go through a court case of this nature as a victim of rape or sexual assault takes great courage and my hope is that today’s guilty verdict will provide some sense of closure to the victims and their families. “Davies was dismissed from South Wales police in 2013. He abused his position as a police officer and gave no regard to the traumatic effect that his actions would have on his victims. These were vulnerable women who, having encountered Davies, found themselves subjected to an appalling abuse of trust.” 