A 13-year-old girl who slashed a classmate across the face, leaving her needing 30 stitches, was today given a two-year supervision order by a judge.Yesterday the girl, who cannot be named, was found guilty of unlawfully wounding Shanni Naylor at Myrtle Springs school in Sheffield last year when both girls were 12. She was cleared of the more serious charge of wounding with intent.Today at Sheffield crown court, the recorder of Sheffield, Judge Alan Goldsack QC, said he did not have the power to give the girl a custodial sentence.The three-day trial was told that, the day before the attack, the girl was subjected to a "vicious" assault by Shanni, who punched her repeatedly, banging her head against a wall, as more than 100 pupils looked on without helping.The court heard the defendant describe how she did not plan to attack Shanni the next day but had found the blade and only wanted to scare her with it.The jury was told how the girl had an extremely low IQ and had lived in Somalia for the first 10 years of her life without any formal education.A psychologist told the court she was likely to have been heavily influenced by a Somali custom in which women routinely settled disputes by inflicting minor scratches on each other's faces.Today the judge said that, given the background of the case, he was not surprised by yesterday's guilty verdict.Sentencing the girl, he told her: "You have taken a razor blade with you into school, walked up to another girl in your class and, under the nose of your teacher, slashed that girl three times in the face with that razor."Serious wounds were inflicted on the face of that girl."The judge noted that Shanni's injured face had appeared on the front page of a number of newspapers and added: "Media interest in your trial has remained considerable, no doubt because of the public concern about the number of knives and other sharp instruments being carried into schools by pupils and then used as weapons."Many who have not followed the details of the case may express some surprise that you were not convicted of the more serious offence."If you had been, a custodial sentence of some length would have been the only possible sentence despite your very young age."Its primary purpose would have been deterrent."I suspect few who have heard evidence in this case are surprised at that verdict. Rather they would take the view it's another example of the jury system working at its best."The judge went on to go through in detail the problems the girl had suffered at the school and her difficult background. He said: "You were the only Somali girl in your year. "You became a victim of bullying and some of it was racially motivated. "Members of staff were aware of at least some of it and you were recognised as having learning difficulties that were not in receipt of an educational statement. "You were described by one teacher as an open and friendly child but you had no friends among the other students. Some told you to get back to your own country." The judge recalled how the girl had been happy at the primary school she went to after first arriving in Sheffield where there was a teacher who spoke her language and other pupils from a similar ethnic background. The judge heard how the girl is now being educated at a small specialist centre where she is doing well. He said: "You want to improve your language. You are a keen student anxious to learn new things. If only more were like you in that respect." Returning to the events of October last year, the judge said: "The fact remains that you took a razor with you into school and you did cause those serious injuries. "The law in this country does not allow revenge attacks and it is by the law of this country that you must be judged. "If you were older, a custodial sentence for what you did would be an appropriate sentence even with the background described and without the intent to cause really serious harm." But Judge Goldsack explained that current legislation did not allow him to take this course. "That may surprise some people," he added. The defendant left the court saying nothing after her sentence. She was wearing a headscarf, an ankle-length pink skirt and a peach-coloured cardigan. Shanni was not in court, nor were any members of her family. Before the trial, the judge held a day-long hearing to decide if the girl was fit to take part in the proceedings. He heard evidence from two consultant psychiatrists and two psychologists, all four of whom argued she was not fit to plead due to her extremely low intelligence and difficult background. One psychologist put her IQ at 45. A psychiatrist said he had never come across anyone with an IQ at this level who was not in an institution. Another psychologist tested her IQ at 63 and the professionals decided a compromise figure of 55 was probably accurate - a level which still put her in the lowest 1% of the UK population. But the judge also heard evidence that many professionals working in this field doubted the usefulness of IQ tests for young children who did not speak English as a first language. One of the consultant psychiatrists was forced to concede that if he had not had her IQ levels put before him he may have taken a different view about her fitness to plead. The girl was helped during the trial by an interpreter but spoke English for most of the time while giving evidence and appeared to follow proceedings without translation for most of the time.