Sir William Macpherson, author of the damning report into the death of Stephen Lawrence, received death threats after accusing the Metropolitan police of "institutional racism", he revealed yesterday.In an interview in the Spectator, the former high court judge admitted: "I get awful letters from people who say they are going to come and murder me, and that Enoch Powell was right, and that I ought to have said they all ought to be sent back." Last night he confirmed that he had received "quite a number" of anonymous threatening letters - believed to number at least 50 - after the report was published in February 1999. "Early on I received a lot of letters from people that were just very unpleasant, threatening grievous bodily harm and things," he said. "The last arrived a few months ago. The police knew about it, but I didn't think they were genuine. In the end, I threw them away." Sir William also made a surprising defence of the Tory leader, William Hague, who last month prompted accusations of racism after blaming the report for lowering police morale and causing a recruitment problem, with its conclusion "institutional racism" was rife among officers. The report had been seized upon as "a stick to beat the police", after its condemnation of the bungled investigation into the black teenager's murder, Mr Hague said. "Hague's speech was pretty good stuff, really," Sir William told the Spectator. "Most of it was from the report and I don't think he was playing the race card." The chairman of the Lawrence inquiry elaborated by saying that his criticism of Mr Hague at the time - when he suggested he had been discourteous in attacking him two years after accepting the report - was because the Tory leader had failed to distinguish sufficiently between the report and the distortion of it. But, on reading the speech, he realised Mr Hague had adopted many of his recommendations, including a change to the double jeopardy law and issues concerning private prosecutions and victim support. Sir William also told the Spectator that he had hesitated before using the "institutional racism" charge, that the phrase was not his, and that he had expressly denied every Metropolitan police officer was racist. But he insisted that it was the only way he could sum up a systemic failure of policing in which unconsciously racist assumptions had played a part at several stages."It was a collective failure, little groups of people. Not just one person, not the rotten apple in the barrel, but each infecting the other," he said. "I could have bottled out. I could have decided not to mention racism at all, and stuck to all the policing questions. But as this procession of coppers came in, our mouths sort of fell open, and we thought, we are bloody well going to have the courage to say it publicly." Sir William's defence of the charge of "institutional racism" - and his revelation of the threats it prompted - came as the friend who was with Stephen when he died called on the home secretary, Jack Straw, to reverse his decision to reinstate a Metropolitan police officer sacked for racism. Duwayne Brooks, 25, who witnessed the 18-year-old stabbed to death by a white gang in Eltham, south-east London, in April 1993, described Mr Straw's decision last month to reinstate Steve Hutt - sacked for calling a 14-year-old boy a "black bastard" - as a "concession to racism". In a letter sent to Mr Straw yesterday, he added that the Macpherson report had sparked a backlash in the police, and the campaign which led to the reinstatement of Mr Hutt was part of this.