Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader and minister for women, gave public backing to a ban on prostitution yesterday.Home Office minister Vernon Coaker and junior women's minister Barbara Follett are to visit Sweden, where paying for sex is illegal, to see what the ban there has achieved.The Home Office considered making paying for sex a specific crime in 2004, but decided against it. Harman's comments have put the issue back on the table. "Do we think it's right in the 21st century that women should be in a sex trade or do we think it's exploitation and should be banned? Just because something has always gone on, it doesn't mean you just wring your hands and say there's nothing we can do about it," Harman told Radio 4's Today programme.She said the government had to deal with the problem of sex workers trafficked into Britain. "I think we do need to have a debate and unless you tackle the demand side of human trafficking, which is fuelling this trade, we will not be able to protect women from it. That is what they've done in Sweden. My own personal view is that's what we need to do as a next step."The Newspaper Society will produce new guidelines on small ads offering services at brothels next month. "I think that the new guidance will stop those ads. But the next question is, can we really stop this trade when we've still got a lawful sex trade going on?" Harman said.The Newspaper Society said papers should consult police and prosecutors over adverts they were concerned about. The Manchester Evening News, part of the Guardian Media Group, said this week it would no longer take personal services ads out of concern that some of the businesses involved were linked to criminal activity.Jacqui Smith, the home secretary, said: "We recognise that there is considerable support for us to do more to tackle the demand for prostitution and to prevent the trafficking of people for sexual exploitation." Smith said the visit to Sweden was "the start of a short-term review exploring what more we can do to strengthen our approach in this area". The review is expected to take about six months.The Home Office said this did not amount to a review of "our overall approach to prostitution". Police already have powers to deal with those paying for sex on the street.As the Guardian revealed in September, ministers have been pressing privately for a ban. Harman vowed in July that the government would tackle the "fathers, brothers and husbands" who have sex with trafficked girls. Former ministers Denis MacShane, Fiona Mactaggart and Barry Gardiner have put forward amendments to the criminal justice and immigration bill, to be debated in the new year, that would give local authorities the power to put men before the courts where they are caught paying for sex in zones in town areas.