The inquiry into the murder of black teenager Stephen Lawrence was unequivocal about one reason for the disproportionate number of black people stopped and searched by the police: racial discrimination.Noting that black people were five times more likely than white people to be involved in a stop and search operation, it concluded: "It is pointless for the police service to try to justify the disparity in these figures purely or mainly in terms of other factors which are identified. The majority of police officers who testified before us accepted that an element of the disparity was the result of discrimination. This must be the the focus of their efforts for the future. Attempts to justify the disparities through the identification of other factors...simply exacerbates the climate of distrust."Surveys suggest the number of stop and searches has been cut in half since the Lawrence report. But the disparity remains. Worse still, street crime has risen sharply. What can one conclude? The Daily Telegraph is in no doubt. It deduces a clear link between the drop in stop and searches and the rise in street crime. The Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner Denis O'Connor noted yesterday the importance of stop and search in crime detection, accounting for 10% of all arrests, 60% of drug arrests and 95% of weapon arrests. Yet he also reminded a BBC interviewer of the importance of public consent for police powers, "particularly for intrusive powers" like stop and search. One reason why there were fewer stop and searches was higher demands on police time in calls from the public and demonstrations, but he conceded that the Lawrence inquiry had had an impact. We hope that is so. Stop and searches increased ninefold between 1986 and 1998, but the proportion leading to arrests dropped from 17% to 10% as they became more indiscriminate. The Lawrence report endorsed the use of stop and search, but wanted better regulation, including the recording of all stops - voluntary stops are currently not recorded - with citizens being given the right to receive a copy of the record and the reason for the stop.Sadly, this is one issue on which ministers are still prevaricating. There was good news yesterday from seven pilot schemes in London which suggest stop and search can be made more systematic and avoid unnecessarily the targeting of ethnic minorities. These are only interim findings, but even if they are confirmed in the final report, the new system must not be a substitute for the recording of all stops, with reasons given. Public trust remains the police service's most crucial resource.