Zoe Williams's attack on all things organic is short-sighted and unhelpful to British farming (Did you fall for the pork pie swindle?, 26 September). She suggests we should boycott all organic produce for the misdeeds of one criminal: Neil Stansfield of Swaddles Organic, who was given a prison sentence for repackaging ordinary foods and reselling them as organic. "It's a huge swindle, the organic market," she claims.My family has been growing organic vegetables in Devon for 23 years and we have run our Riverford organic box scheme since 1993. "Sure, the crime ... had victims. But they were all asking for it," she asserts. The organic buyers and growers I encounter bear no resemblance to the unthinking and compliant creatures she depicts. The vast majority are looking for a safer, fairer and more sustainable way of growing and enjoying food.They are generally an argumentative, questioning and varied lot, making their own pragmatic judgments after balancing up a host of issues including fair trade, scale of production, localness, use of packaging, animal welfare, food safety and environmental impact, to name a few. Williams shouldn't condemn a buyer who shows a modicum of trust as a mug who deserves to be ripped off.While food safety – and particularly the avoidance of pesticides – often head the list of motivations for new organic buyers, in my experience this is soon supplanted by flavour. Williams suggests that distinguishing organic and non-organic would be "impossible in a carrot", but our customers consistently cite flavour as the main reason for buying organic; and carrots are the vegetable they use most often as an example.It is true that the organic movement has seemingly hijacked a wide variety of food issues over the years, and I have no doubt that the Soil Association is at its best when concentrating on its original remit of farming and the soil, leaving other groups to fight other battles. But they have got most things right, and have normally been ahead of our government, most journalists and Jamie Oliver – whether on BSE, school dinners, farmers' markets, pig and chicken welfare, carbon capture in soils, or antibiotic misuse. Certainly they have a better record than conventional farming.To present the organic industry as "very binary and rule-bound" and not allowing for flexibility is simply not accurate. Few believe that organic is the only, or complete, solution: most share a belief that our food and farming needs to change and that in most instances organic offers a better alternative and is the closest fit on offer to their particular set of values and priorities.The 27-month sentence Stansfield received for his criminal betrayal of trust may seem harsh to Williams, but for growers who have put a lifetime of honest graft into organic production, and buyers who struggle to buy food they can trust, it seems positively lenient.Guy Watson is the founder of Riverford Organichelp@riverford.co.uk