No charge will be brought against any police officer in connection with the two botched investigations of the 1997 murder of the black musician Michael Menson, even though the police complaints authority found negligence and racism in the investigations.It emerged last night that the crown prosecution service has written to his family saying there is insufficient evidence to bring charges against former and serving members of the Metropolitan police. The investigations of Menson's death have been compared with that of Stephen Lawrence as an example of how institutional racism in Scotland Yard prevented the police doing their job properly. Menson, who had a history of mental illness, was racially abused and set alight in Edmonton, north London in January 1997. He died nearly three weeks later. The police treated the case as suicide, even though in hospital he told several people, including his brother and a woman officer, that he had been attacked by four white youths. It was only when an inquest jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing in September 1998, and after Menson's family met the home secretary, Jack Straw, two months later, that a third set of investigators, led by the race and violent crime task force, were appointed and three suspects charged. In December 1999 one man was found guilty of murder and another of manslaughter. A three-year investigation for the police complaints authority by Cambridgeshire police has found that the first two investigations were unprofessional, uncoordinated, in part negligent, and at best inept. It also found examples of institutional racism. The family were checked with special branch to see if "political motivation might be at play". The unreleased report also found that at the inquest an officer told a pathologist: "I don't know why they're worried - this only concerns a fucking black schizophrenic." The prosecution service told the family in its letter last week: "Although there were undoubtedly failings in the two investigations preceding the one which finally brought the offenders to justice, I do not consider that any are sufficiently wilful or grave as to justify criminal proceedings. "It is an offence for a public officer wilfully to neglect to perform a duty which he is bound to perform by common law or statute. The neglect must be wilful, and not merely inadvertent and culpable in the sense of being without reasonable excuse or justification." Kwesi Menson, the dead man's brother, said last night: "I am deeply concerned. We seek a meeting with the director of public prosecutions. We think prosecutions ought to be brought, because we have been told there is clear evidence of serious failings. "Those responsible must be made accountable. We are determined that those police officers should be made to answer for their actions." The family's solicitor, Michael Schwarz, would not rule out legal proceedings against the prosecution service, the Met or individual officers. Some involved have retired. Scotland Yard said last night that "disciplinary action" was being considered against serving officers. Commander Cressida Dick said the case had been "extraordinarily important" in the history of London and the Met. "What happened when Michael was murdered would not happen today, it would be a very different investigation today," she said. The complaints authority said it would meet Scotland Yard to review the latter's suggestions for disciplinary action.