An experiment backed by Downing Street to introduce two US-style night courts from January, to tackle soaring street crime and drunken, anti-social behaviour by dispensing immediate punishment, is be shelved after failing to win funding.Home Office papers seen by the Guardian show that two pilot schemes in London and Manchester, which would have cost £5.4m, appear to have been shelved when Home Office officials thrashed out their bids for Treasury funds for next year's law and order projects. The prime minister trumpeted the idea of round-the-clock courts during the general election campaign in a high-profile speech in which he promised to tackle "yob culture". Tony Blair backed the scheme after the Metropolitan police commissioner, Sir John Stevens, returned from New York in February claiming night courts could make a real contribution to tackling the soaring number of muggings in London. The pilot schemes were due to be launched at Horseferry Road magistrates' court in London and at Manchester city court. They would have involved magistrates sitting until midnight and at weekends. A previous leak to the Guardian in September disclosed that Downing Street was insisting that the pilot schemes should go ahead, despite warnings from the Home Office of difficulties with night courts. These included concern that some defendants would be too drunk or drugged to understand the proceedings if they were dealt with immediately and that it might be better to leave violent individuals to cool off overnight in the cells rather than dealing with them so quickly they are out on the streets again the same night. The Home Office documents show that John Gieve, the most senior Home Office civil servant, said a choice had to be made between funding the night courts pilot or another flagship initiative to tackle hardcore repeat offenders. Mr Gieve has suggested to ministers that surplus money should go on a £12.3m pilot scheme to track persistent offenders which was a key feature of the government's 10-year crime plan. The persistent offenders' project which has yet to be announced by ministers is the result of the special project that Lord Birt, the former BBC director-general, undertook for Mr Blair. Starting next April and due to run for three years, its official aim is to "increase by 30% the number of offences for which a persistent offender is caught and brought to justice" and marks the first stage of Labour's manifesto 10-year goal to double the chance of a persistent offender being caught and punished. It is based on Lord Birt's crime work for Downing Street in which he claimed that 100,000 persistent offenders are responsible for nearly of half of recorded crime. He argued that targeting such hardcore criminals could yield disproportionately large reductions in crime. The Home Office papers note the "PM's letter of 9 July 2001 on this, so commitment of Home Office and Lord Chancellor's Department is crucial." The project would see a computer database, to be used internally by police forces, set up to track the activities of persistent offenders. Harry Fletcher, of the National Association of Probation Officers, said the decision to shelve the night courts plan was welcome "because the key issue is not the need for night courts but to tackle the culture of delay and constant adjournments in the rest of the court system".