A 19-year-old woman has been convicted of plotting to lure two teenage girls on a night out to be raped by three men.Stephanie Knight told the 16-year-olds they were going out clubbing but instead they were driven around and plied with alcohol before one of them was forced to have sex with "her boys" – brothers Amjad Hussain, 34, and Shahid Hussain, 37, and their cousin Tanveer Butt, 39.Amjad Hussain, whose partner was due to give birth at the time, then raped both girls as he drove them home to Blackburn in December 2009, Burnley crown court heard on Tuesday. The girls were taken to an empty terrace house in Accrington with no electricity, where the three men subjected one of the girls to a "terrifying ordeal" .Knight wanted the other girl to perform oral sex on one of the men but she refused. She and Butt then prevented her going to the assistance of her friend, who was crying out when being raped. The girl who was raped at Amjad Hussain's former home later told police she was pulled into a number of rooms by the men throughout the night, who took turns to sexually assault her. The prosecution said both victims had known Knight for only up to a week and had not previously met any of the other defendants. After she lured them out for the evening, Knight was heard to say "got them" in a mobile phone conversation and named the girls.Following the arrest of the defendants, one of the victims was asked by police what she now knew of Knight. She replied: "She hangs around with a load of Asian lads."In her defence, Knight denied there was any agreement for the sexual assaults to take place.Knight, who has been in local authority care since the age of 11, said she first met Amjad Hussain six months earlier, when he pulled up beside her in the street and asked for her mobile phone number. They had a sexual relationship and she said she later fell in love with him. In the months that followed Amjad Hussain persuaded her to perform oral sex on his brother and cousin, she said.The court heard that Knight herself was currently being supported by Engage, a multi-agency initiative set up to tackle child sex exploitation in Blackburn.Amjad Hussain claimed that sex with both girls was consensual, while the other two defendants denied ever having met the girls.Knight, Amjad Hussain and married father-of-four Butt were all convicted of conspiracy to rape. Knight and Butt were also found guilty of aiding and abetting rape, while Amjad Hussain, Shahid Hussain and Butt were all convicted of rape.They will be sentenced on 2 September.