Liberal critics of the government's flagship antisocial behaviour orders (Asbos) are "not living in the real world", according to the head of the government unit tackling the issue.Louise Casey, director of the Home Office antisocial behaviour unit, argues that critics including "youth workers, social workers and the liberal intelligentsia" should accept there is strong public support for the sanctions in addressing "a culture of intimidation". Her broadside, in an interview with the Guardian, comes as a new Mori poll released last night indicates widespread backing for Asbos, which ban individuals from specific antisocial activities or from entering a particular area for a minimum of two years.That support comes despite the fact that almost half of those questioned believe the orders are ineffective in preventing people from causing antisocial behaviour. The Mori findings suggest that support for Asbos is strong in part "simply because it highlights that something is being done". While 82% back the orders (including 67% of Guardian readers questioned), only 39% feel they are effective. But while one in five believes the orders, which apply to children as young as 10 and carry the threat of prison if breached, create more problems than they solve, 70% say they send out a clear message that action will be taken to combat antisocial behaviour. Ms Casey said she regarded the poll as a "B minus" verdict on her unit and the government's success in tackling antisocial behaviour, but said the findings confirmed the public wanted more action to address the issue. She conceded that might not always mean more Asbos, and also pointed to an array of less forceful measures to address problem behaviour, but said the term Asbo had been picked up by the public and was being used as "a byword for action". Asbos have come under attack from civil liberties groups for being too wide ranging and draconian. Critics include the campaign group Asbo Concern, formed in April and backed by 30 organisations including the Howard League for Penal Reform, Liberty and the National Association of Probation Officers. Ms Casey called on such groups to consider the views of victims of antisocial behaviour. "Sometimes I wish people like Asbo Concern and some of the people who write letters to the Guardian could just see it from the point of view of the people in the communities." Those who attack Asbos "are not necessarily living in the real world", she said. "[Asbo] is a byword for the country wanting something done about a guy who is 50 and looks 70 who gets gobbed on and has stuff thrown at him by a group of teenagers when he leaves the house for a night shift." While youths and others disrupting communities needed activities to keep them off the streets and help with their problems, "you also sometimes need to say to somebody 'if you don't get your act together ... then you face some consequences'". Problems of crack houses on inner-city estates could not be addressed by "running enough youth clubs", she added. Prevention of antisocial behaviour was crucial, but it had to be coupled with enforcement. The government made much of its fight against antisocial behaviour during the general election, boasting that the evidence of almost 4,000 Asbos and nearly 60,000 penalty notices for disorder showed communities could fight back. Tony Blair has made respect a key theme of his third term, though critics have argued the government may be stoking up fears over antisocial behaviour by focusing so much on the issue. Matt Foot, a criminal defence solicitor and coordinator of Asbo Concern, yesterday pointed to a report by the European human rights commissioner criticising the government for making Asbos too easy to obtain (only 3% of applications for orders are refused). Mr Foot also highlighted a study by the Joseph Rowntree Foundation indicating that two-thirds of people believe the government's emphasis should be on prevention rather than punishment in tackling antisocial behaviour. He said: "The government cannot just go on ignoring what the professionals are saying. Is Louise Casey saying all these people who are this serious don't understand the real world?"