It might be forgivable for the relatives of his victims to be pleased to learn today that Harold Shipman has apparently killed himself.But the relatives' reaction has been more focused on the anger and hurt they feel that Britain's - and perhaps the world's - most prolific serial killer has taken with him to the grave the secrets of why he murdered at least 215 of his patients.A report from the Shipman inquiry said he was "addicted to killing" and perhaps as good a clue to a motive as any came during the opening of his trial when the prosecutor Richard Henriques QC said he was "exercising the ultimate power of controlling life and death".The psychiatrist Dr Richard Badcock, who examined Shipman, said he had shown the symptoms of a "classic necrophiliac", one who enjoyed some sort of sexual gratification in the act of inducing death.But the absence of any clear and unequivocal reason, or explanation, from Shipman himself prompts closer scrutiny of his life. Harold Frederick Shipman was born in Nottingham's Bestwood council estate and worked his way through the 11-plus into the city's High Pavement grammar school. As invariably seems the case with people who grow up to become serial killers, he was known as a loner. Much has been made of the fact that Shipman's mother, who died of cancer when he was 17, had been treated with morphine by the family's GP in the last weeks of her life. It seems too much of a coincidence that her son should grow up to kill so many by injecting them with morphine, for this not to be of some importance. Shipman decided to become a doctor, attending Leeds University medical school in 1965, and developed an addiction to painkillers himself. He graduated in 1970, becoming a houseman at Pontefract general infirmary in West Yorkshire, before joining his first practice in the Pennines, where he began forging prescriptions to supply himself with the painkiller pethidine.He injected it for six months to the point where his veins collapsed. When his drug habit was discovered, he resigned immediately. He was later fined £600 at Halifax magistrates court on drugs and forgery charges yet, despite his case coming before the General Medical Council, he was not struck off or even censured. He underwent a course of psychiatric treatment and returned to work as a medical officer in Durham before moving to the Donneybrook practice in Hyde, setting up home nearby. He had met his wife, Primrose, a farmer's daughter, during his first year at university and they married after she had become pregnant with the first of their four children.The importance to him of Primrose cannot be underestimated. She stood by Shipman throughout his arrest and trial, sitting on every 52 of the days in court at the front of the public gallery. Letters by Shipman written before and during his trial that were obtained by the Sunday Telegraph after it ended showed his emotional dependence on her. In the letters, written to close friends while he was on remand in prison, he appeared to be complacent about the charges he faced and there was no evidence of remorse. In some sections, he even ridiculed the relatives of victims. But they also revealed that he had moments of sinking into self-pity, weeping in his cell.Some relatives said he treated them callously around the time their family member died, and he had a reputation for arrogance. But other people described the doctor, who the Shipman inquiry revealed was a reader of the Guardian, as a caring, local GP.Deaths of his patients investigated by police as possible murders date as far back as 1985. Most of his victims were middle-aged and elderly women patients he targeted with injections of diamorphine, the clinical name for heroin. He had stockpiled vast amounts of it by either falsely prescribing it or taking it from cancer patients after their deaths, without alerting authorities. There were no procedures for detecting that the death rate among Shipman's elderly patients was three times higher than the norm for the area. He is believed to have killed over 23 years; imagine how invulnerable to detection that must have made him feel.Arguably he may never have been caught if he had not deviated from his usual behaviour in killing and went after money when he bungled an attempt to forge the £386,000 will of his final victim, the wealthy 81-year-old former mayor of Hyde, Kathleen Grundy.She died at home only hours after Shipman visited her on the pretext of taking a blood sample. That same day a firm of solicitors in the town received a copy of a will purporting to be that of Mrs Grundy. It read: "All my estate, money and home to my doctor. My family are not in need and I want to reward him for all the care he has given to me and the people of Hyde."Mrs Grundy's daughter, Angela Woodruff, 58, a Warwickshire solicitor, was staggered when she received a copy of the will and it was her suspicions that lead to Shipman's downfall. Shipman's attempt at forging the will was described by detectives as so "cack-handed" that it was inevitable he would be caught. Police found the will had been produced on an ageing Brother typewriter in Shipman's surgery and that his fingerprints were on the document and another letter received by the solicitors. Mrs Grundy's body was exhumed and traces of morphine found. The trial judge, Mr Justice Forbes, recommended that Shipman should spend the rest of his life behind bars for what he called his "wicked, wicked crimes". He told him: "Each of your victims was your patient ... for your own evil and wicked purposes you took advantage of them and grossly abused the trust that each of your victims placed in you ... I have little doubt that each of your victims smiled and thanked you as she submitted to your deadly ministrations."