The search for missing 14-year-old Lorna Vickerage and wanted fraudster John Bush has switched to Watford, Hertfordshire, as police fear the pair from Doncaster might be trying to leave the country.South Yorkshire police have issued an all-ports alert and investigations are continuing at hotels in Watford and in Sproxton, Leicestershire, where sightings were reported on Thursday. Officers are also trying to check CCTV footage.Bush is said to have links to a relatively distant member of Lorna's family but is not known to either her mother or grandparents.Lorna has been missing since she disappeared from the Outwood Academy at 2.30pm on Monday and she was reportedly seen with Bush in the Highfields area of the town on Wednesday. The pair tried to check in to a hotel in Watford at 11pm last night but the card Bush wanted to use was declined, prompting the suspicions of the management, DCI Craig Robinson told a press conference in Doncaster.Lorna and Bush were then believed to have gone to a hotel next door."John is still wanted and Lorna is still missing from home," said Robinson. "She is vulnerable and needs to be brought back home quickly … As time progresses they are getting further south. I don't want them to leave the country. They would be foolish to try."Lorna had clearly been taken with her consent, said Robinson. "At the moment, we don't know his [Bush's] motives. There has been speculation they have been having a relationship but we just don't know."He added: "John, you must know we are hot on your trail and it is only a matter of time before we catch up with you. Make life easy for yourself. Hand Lorna in. Hand yourself in. Lets's bring this to an early conclusion."Lorna's mother, Christine, said: "John, if you're watching this, fetch our Lorna home. Lorna – you're in no trouble. Just come home, sweetheart." Her grandmother, Diane Vickerage, said: "I'd just like to appeal to John to fetch Lorna home, please. Being a family man yourself, you can see how much heartache you're causing the family."Please fetch Lorna home. Lorna, we love you very much and we're missing you and we're here for you and you're not in any trouble."We love you and we just want you to come home, please."The investigation had already shifted to Sproxton and a Ford Mondeo the pair were believed to have been using was recovered near a hotel. It is now being forensically examined.The pair were also reported to be heading towards Melton Mowbray station on Thursday morning but those who made the sightings in Leicestershire did not know there was a nationwide hunt until later in the day, when they contacted police.Earlier this year Bush was described as a "professional fraudster" by a judge who gave him a 14-month prison sentence, suspended for two years on condition that he did 200 hours of unpaid work. York crown court heard how Bush committed a range of frauds, including persuading garages to give him courtesy cars that he did not return and using a holiday cottage without paying.Another 35-year-old man from the Doncaster area has also been arrested on suspicion of child abduction in connection with the investigation.