In the next two weeks one of Britain's most infamous convicted murderers will return to the north London housing estate where last he lived 18 years ago. Winston Silcott, now 44, will find Broadwater Farm, Tottenham, much changed. The maze of raised walkways has been demolished, taking with it the crime-friendly, shadowed voids that once lurked beneath. There are concierge desks in each of the housing blocks now, with staff keeping an eye on comings and goings, plus CCTV cameras outside, and vivid murals on the walls. It has one of the lowest crime rates in the borough and there is a waiting list for places in some 1,000 flats. Broadwater Farm has come a long way since the event which defined its place in the public imagination: the terrible night, in October 1985, when PC Keith Blakelock was hacked to death during an outbreak of rioting. His friends say Silcott is different too, that he has also been reconstructed. 'He's a very thoughtful character now,' says his friend Stafford Scott, a community worker who has long campaigned for Silcott's release. 'He did a lot of learning while he was inside. He wants to work to try and bring the community together.' After positive thinking and anger management courses he is, Scott says, a 'very mellow man'. To Silcott's opponents, a tight nexus of police pressure groups, victim's organisations and the right-wing media, the idea of Silcott as a force for good in the community is anathema. To them he will forever be a monster, the huge, menacing black man who was long ago convicted of Blakelock's brutal killing. It does not matter that the conviction was quashed in 1991, after it was found that a key element of his 'confession' had been fabricated. It does not matter that he was paid compensation for malicious prosecution by the Metropolitan Police, a source of outrage in itself. His continued imprisonment, for the murder of a nightclub bouncer, Anthony Smith, earlier in 1985, a crime for which he has served four years more than the 14-year tariff handed out at his trial, has given them all the ammunition they need. 'I personally believe Silcott should not be freed,' said PC Norman Brennan of the Victims of Crime Trust, reacting last week to news of his imminent release. 'I don't know how anyone can say, bearing in mind his previous history, that he is unlikely to re-offend.'Glen Smyth of the Metropolitan Police Federation has delivered the same message. 'The public were promised that life would mean life and it clearly doesn't. The only people that serve life sentences are the families and loved ones of the victims.' In the Express he was 'Murderer Silcott'; in the Sun it was 'Fury at Silcott release'. Silcott and his supporters believe it is these entrenched attitudes that have kept him inside for so long. The key question, they say, is not 'Why has he been released now?' but 'Why was he not released before?' After all, it is almost four years since he was described, in a parole board report, as 'a model prisoner' and commended on his community youth work while serving his sentence in Maidstone Prison. Prison officers described him as 'extremely good in prison' and 'not at all a domineering person'. And yet requests that he be moved to an open prison, a vital precursor to release, were repeatedly turned down. At the time, speaking exclusively to The Observer, Silcott was in no doubt as to why he was being kept inside. 'It's political,' he said. 'The police make out that they've done their job, that they got their man [for Blakelock], that my conviction was overturned on a technicality. But it's not a technicality.' As he pointed out he was not in any of the 1,000 pictures taken that night and there was no forensic evidence linking him with the crime. There are many who believe Silcott would not have been released even now were it not for a ruling last year in the European Court of Human Rights that barred politicians from having a say in controversial parole decisions. Silcott has long argued that he was also innocent of murdering Smith, that he was killed in an act of self-defence, but claims that attempts to clear his name have been stymied by the taint of Blakelock, that the two cases have become intertwined. 'If the Blakelock case hadn't been involved and the Smith case was by itself the Criminal Cases Review Commission would have sent it back [to the Court of Appeal] by now.' In response to the Smith case Silcott began growing what he called his 'freedom beard', refusing to shave until his conviction was overturned, the only thing he believes will finally clean away the stain of the Blakelock case. The beard grew to over six feet long and he had to wear it curled away into a little bag beneath his chin until, just a few weeks ago, it simply fell off under its own weight, as if preparing him for release. According to Stafford Scott the freedom beard may have gone but the resolve has not. 'Winston welcomes the opportunity he's now going to have to say to the police "you've used the racist media, you've pushed the racist stereotypes, now show us the evidence,"' Scott says. 'Winston's case is a whole lesson in how you build myths and legends against people and we're keen to find ways to deconstruct those myths.' In a short statement released through his solicitor last week, Silcott announced only that he was 'looking forward to returning to my family and to overturning my conviction'. The strength of feeling on both sides is clear and mostly understandable. Today, however, after the Stephen Lawrence Inquiry, the Macpherson Report and the attendant arguments about institutional racism, there are some who see the intense interest generated by Silcott's case as an anachronism. 'Everybody wants to interpret the state of race relations in Britain through the lens of this particular case and this particular man,' says Trevor Phillips, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality. 'But we're light years on from where we were when Broadwater Farm happened. What does Silcott's story tell us about the state of young black men in Britain today? Absolutely nothing.' So what does he have to say to police groups who insist angrily that Silcott should still be behind bars? 'They have to get over it. We have kids being shot in the street in Britain's cities. We have an epidemic of crack cocaine. We have Chinese people traffickers and east European gangs. And having arguments about whether Silcott is guilty or not misses the point.' It is also, he says, of no benefit to the black community. 'The iconic status of Winston Silcott as a large frightening black man is something solely for white people.' Added to this there is some fear that constant references to Silcott and, by association, the terrible night when PC Blakelock died, will besmirch the reputation of Broadwater Farm, which has done so much to reinvent itself. Paul Dennehy has been Haringey Council's neighbourhood officer for the estate for almost nine years. 'Every time these stories come along we just have to bite the bullet and accept that what happened here, happened, that we must learn from those events but we also have to make sure that the Broadwater Farm community doesn't suffer as a result of that association.' The problem, he says, is that the memory of the riot is so strong and so vivid, that people assume the regeneration was a direct result. 'It wasn't. There were community initiatives here before the riot. In the early Eighties we had a youth association with young black men serving meals to elderly white women. Projects were under way.' Over the past 10 years, however, the pace has accelerated. £33 million was spent changing the built environment, using contractors obliged to employ 20 per cent of their labour directly from the estate. 'It's never just been about what the place looks like it. It's about what the people who live here feel like. It's about encouraging self-esteem.' Now public housing officials come from as far away as Russia and the US, France and Germany to see the work they have done and to learn lessons for failing housing projects back in their own countries. There is, of course, an irony here. A housing estate viewed as an example for the future is now firmly linked to a man hidebound by his disputed past. Will that be good for Broadwater Farm? Phillips thinks not. 'The best thing that could happen now is if Winston Silcott simply returned home and got on with his life,' Phillips says. The chances of that happening, however, seem slim. Silcott has been fighting for 18 years. He has fought countless battles in the courts. He may be about to win his freedom but he's unlikely to give up now.