It is one month since London won the right to stage the 2012 Olympics and already the landscape is changing. Construction has begun on a showpiece swimming pool and work will soon commence to bury power lines beneath the east London site earmarked for the main stadium.But those who won the right to stage the Olympic Games are also quietly celebrating the emergence of a less obvious but more significant benefit. It is, perhaps, Britain's first real Olympic dividend.As part of the winning bid, officials emphasised the social benefits of sport. Up to £1m of government money was spent encouraging youngsters in east London to engage in physical activities and over 64,000 young people took part in 26 different Olympic activities.This has left Newham, one of the host Olympic boroughs, with more agile children, but the issue exciting administrators and government ministers alike is the fact that the ongoing drive to promote sport also seems to have brought about a dramatic reduction in crime.In the past year, the number of young people in the borough making a first court appearance to face criminal charges has dropped by 25%. This compares with a 1% reduction in other parts of London. Overall the figures for juvenile court appearances in Newham, including those by first time and repeat offenders, are down 38%.For the most part young people have volunteered to take part in extra free sporting activities, including canoeing, fencing, swimming, horse riding, gymnastics, football and cycling. But some have been referred by youth offending teams in the borough.In some cases, formal, legally binding contracts oblige youngsters to participate in a beneficial sport.Forty after-school clubs have been established and an estate-based scheme, which offers six free sports, has attracted 16,000 young people. Olympic "Gold" cards have allowed young people to participate in subsidised activities and as demand has increased, so has supply. The number of trained sport coaches available to locals has quadrupled."The right to host the Olympic Games is a terrific honour for east London, but we always said that it should mean more than that," said Newham's mayor, Sir Robin Wales, who also sat on the board of the Olympic bid company London 2012. "There will be massive regeneration but what we are already seeing is the extent to which sport can really impact on people's lives."Peter Nicholson, head of the borough's youth offending services, said the use of sport to fight crime can be effective but is not an easy option, especially when dealing with those who have previously been in trouble."This is a tough group to engage. You can't you give them a letter saying 'turn up at West Ham United Football Club' because they probably won't, and if they do they will spend the first session messing around and annoying everyone," he said. "But if one of our team goes with them, talks to the coach and asks for patience, then it is more likely to work, and a youngster who is happily playing football three times a week is not on the street causing trouble."The concept is one increasingly embraced by the government. In recent weeks Home Office ministers Hazel Blears and Baroness Scotland and local government minister Phil Woolas have praised the borough's strategies for tackling youth offending, many of which have been funded through the government's Neighbourhood Renewal Fund. Last year, before leaving the Home Office, David Blunkett gave his backing and funding to a scheme that encouraged youngsters at risk of offending to take up boxing.ThrivingIn Newham at least, the figures seem to add up. It spends £5m on leisure centres and sport but has received an additional £1m in NRF funding. Recent estimates suggest it can cost around £236,000 to take a single young offender through the judicial system.Roger Draper, chief executive of Sport England, said sport is a great means of bringing communities together, reducing crime and helping with serious health issues."The 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester confirmed the social benefits that major events can have in terms of creating jobs and creating a thriving sporting culture," he added.Linda Strachan, 43, a fencer with seven championship titles and 11 Commonwealth Games titles, competed in the Seoul and Barcelona Olympics. Newham born and bred, she has qualified as a teacher and runs fencing classes in schools and estates around the borough. "We have seen children change," she said. "They learn a lot about discipline and become more socialised."Ashley Goodridge, 17, admits he has "had a few problems" but after gaining a level one football coach's certificate in February, the teenager has been coaching an under 16s soccer team."Doing my football has really helped me," he said. "If you get to the point where you are really enjoying your sport and want to take it seriously, you want to keep yourself out of trouble."