Police will from today ban the under-16s from roaming the centre of a Cumbrian market town after dark. They will also have the power to order any group of two or more young people, whatever their age and whatever the time, to leave the area and not return.The action in Wigton will be in force for the two weeks schools are shut for the Easter break. The night-time curfew will apply to all children under 16 and has been introduced following rowdy behaviour and vandalism during the half-term holiday in February.Police claim the majority of residents are in favour of the action they have taken."In the last half-term holiday, we had 27 crimes or incidents that were clearly attributable to young people. We want to pre-empt the same thing from happening in this holiday," said Inspector Dave Barr."The legislation is in two parts. If after 9pm a young person is not being effectively supervised by someone 18 or over, we can take him or her home."If a group of two or more, regardless of age and time, is gathering together harassing or intimidating people, the second part allows police to ask them to leave the area and instruct them not to return. If they refuse to leave or come back after having left, we have the power to arrest them."Offenders could be fined up to £2,500 or detained for up to three months. Cumbria police have used powers made possi ble by the 2003 Anti-Social Behaviour Act, which came into force in January. Orders could run for up to six months. But the Wigton order runs from today until April 19."I don't want people to get the wrong impression of Wigton - it's not a nasty place to live," added Insp Barr. "The aim in doing this is to improve the quality of life for people here."If you see groups of children roaming round the streets and that stops you going to the shops or out for a drink at night because you think your car is going to get damaged, that has an effect on your quality of life."He said police would use "a big chunk of common sense" in enforcing the curfew."If they see a 15-year-old at 9.30pm walking to the Spar shop to get a pint of milk for his or her grandmother, they are not going to use these powers."The Spar shop has been a regular trouble spot in Wigton. Yesterday staff there welcomed the police action."The bad behaviour has been going on a long time but it has got worse over the last 12 months," said shop assistant Margaret Robinson. "We are pleased about the curfew but we had hoped it could be permanent."She said staff and customers were fed up with teenagers swearing, spitting and throwing litter."They come into the shop and cause trouble," added Mrs Robinson. "They have kicked a football in and run after it, and they have even ridden around on a push bike."