Michael Menson Musician Michael Menson was found badly burned in the early hours of 27 January, 1997 in Edmonton, north London. The 30-year-old son of a Ghanaian diplomat died later in hospital from his wounds. The fact that he suffered from depression led police to the initial conclusion that he had set light to himself. The police did not immediately set up a full investigation and Scotland Yard has since accepted that serious errors were made.  In September 1988, an inquest jury returned a verdict of unlawful killing in the case - although it has taken until January this year for the police to accept that his murder was a racist offence. The Metropolitan Police has set up a new inquiry unit to investigate the murder - Michael's sister Essie has said she is satisfied with the team. New evidence also shows that the assailants used an accelerant to ensure their victim burned to death. Original Police Complaints press release on Michael Menson's death  Lakhvinder 'Ricky' Reel Ricky Reel, a student aged 20, was found floating in the Thames in October 1997, after a night out with three Asian friends. During the evening he and his friends were confronted by two white youths who shouted racial abuse, forcing them to flee in separate directions. However, when the body was discovered, police immediately claimed Ricky had drunkenly fallen in the river while trying to urinate - his fly buttons were undone. Initial inquiries by the Police Complaints Authority (PCA) came to the same conclusion. An independent pathologist was brought in by the family to investigate and found that Ricky had a full bladder when he died and that a third party was probably involved in his drowning. The family is waiting for the publication of a new PCA report - which is believed to criticise the original police investigation team. Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Paul Condon has offered to launch a new investigation into the death. Justice for Ricky Reel home page Other cases The Institute of Race Relations has a comprehensive list of unsolved racist murders on its web site