A teenager was this week arrested for wasting police time after he provoked fears that the hammer-wielding killer of the student Marsha McDonnell might have struck again.The 18-year-old, now on bail, and due to be questioned again, claimed that a man followed him after he got off a night bus in Hampton Hill, south-west London, and tried to hit him with a heavy tool. He told police he had escaped unscathed. Detectives linked this incident, on February 24, to the murder of Ms McDonnell, who was attacked three weeks earlier as she walked to her home in Percy Road, Hampton. The youth, who lives in Hampton, said that he was attacked with a hammer or wrench by a hooded man. He said he suffered a "glancing blow". His story heightened concern that a serial offender might be operating in the area. Before he came forward detectives in the murder squad had linked Ms McDonnell's death to an attack in January in nearby Strawberry Hill, which left a 17-year-old with serious head injuries. The teenager could not remember what happened to her and police thought she might have slipped on ice. But a pathologist found that a 6cm cut on her head was consistent with a blow, possibly from a hammer. Metropolitan police said yesterday that the questioning of the released 18-year-old student, who said he suffered an attack, related to the allegation of assault he had made on February 25, which would be investigated "in parallel to the murder of Marsha McDonnell and an earlier attack on a 17-year-old girl on January 8". An e-fit of a man spotted at the scene of the attack in January has been issued by the police. It was produced after a woman told police that she had seen a man leaning over the attacked 17-year-old girl as she lay unconscious on the pavement. According to the witness, the man stayed for a few seconds then walked off. The suspect is described as white, clean-shaven, in his late 40s, about 5ft 9in tall, of chunky build with dark, collar-length hair and bushy eyebrows. He had a round, prominent nose and was wearing a dark thigh-length Barbour-style jacket.