A former English teacher today pleaded guilty to threatening to blow up the Bluewater shopping centre in Kent. Saeed Ghafoor said he was going to bomb Europe's largest shopping complex using three limousines with gas canister explosives. But when questioned about his plot, Ghafoor, 33, of Southampton, did not appear to know where the shopping centre was, the Old Bailey heard.When told it was near the Dartford tunnel in Kent rather than in Exeter as he thought, Ghafoor, who is Muslim, said he had not "finalised" his plans, the court was told. He pleaded guilty to threatening to cause criminal damage and was remanded in custody for reports before sentencing next month.Ghafoor made his threat to prison officers at Haverigg jail, in Cumbria, in February. He was serving a 12-month sentence, imposed in January, for threats to kill his sister and assault. After being released on licence on March 7, he was arrested and taken to Carlisle police station, where he was questioned and charged. Pierce Arnold, prosecuting, said Ghafoor was now in Wandsworth prison because his licence had been revoked. "This matter is not a bomb hoax," he said. "Ghafoor made the threat and it was treated seriously. "We do not know if he could have carried it out. It appeared on the face of it to be a serious threat by someone who was not happy."Arnold said the first prison officer he had spoken to had formed the impression that Ghafoor was a "fantasist" but took the threat seriously. Senior prison officer Dawn Pugh then went to see him, and he told her: "I am planning to bomb Bluewater shopping centre in Exeter." Arnold said: "He was going to blow up Bluewater shopping centre with three limousines packed with explosives." When another prison officer pointed out that Bluewater was in Kent, Ghafoor told him: "The plan is not finalised yet." He said he was protesting at the involvement of British and US troops in Afghanistan. He was seen by the prison imam, who formed the impression that he was susceptible to brainwashing. After his arrest, a psychiatrist told police he had no mental disorder, Arnold said. Ghafoor - who appeared in court by video link - was said to have a history of domestic trouble that resulted in him threatening to destroy property.The Bluewater centre was the target for a gang of terrorists, led by Omar Khyam, who were jailed for a fertiliser bomb plot last year. 