The BBC is to screen a provocative new drama about domestic ritual abuse and its effect in creating victims with 'multiple personalities'. To be shown at primetime on BBC One in the next two months, May 33rd stars Lia Williams as Ella, a young woman whose tortured upbringing causes her personality to fragment into five different people. The drama - its title reflects Ella's disjunction - is written by Guy Hibbert, whose previous film, No Child of Mine, a true story about child prostitution and abuse, caused controversy in 1996. For May 33rd, he interviewed sufferers of the multiple personality condition known as Dissociative Identity Disorder (DID). Hibbert said: 'The women I spoke to had been abused by family and friends. The rituals vary: some use Christian symbolism, some may believe in a kind of Satanism. But I found it's more to do with dressing up and sadism. They seem to be very ordinary members of the community and they like being secretive. 'Women in particular with DID are popping up all over the country but we're not sure of the numbers. Something appalling has happened to them but it's very difficult to get to the truth of it. Many seem to have been drugged before being abused. 'In the past, they've been misdiagnosed as schizophrenic, and there is still huge resistance to believing the victims. Because we find it so disgusting, it's easier not to believe it's happening.' The perpetrators are seldom caught, Hibbert added. 'I talked to the Metropolitan Police and one WPC said they already had eight child-abuse cases to deal with by the end of the day. Often the women are coming with complaints that are retrospective and very complicated and the police just don't have time.' Some therapists welcomed the film. Brett Kahr, senior lecturer in psychotherapy at Regent's College, London, and a consultant on May 33rd, said: 'The experience of so many people who have been abused is one of being disbelieved. If this film makes even one sufferer feel her experience has been validated it will be worthwhile. I hope it does much more than that and make abusers examine the damage they are doing.' But Tom Fahy, a psychiatrist at the Maudsley Hospital, London, argued that many DID cases are the creation of misguided therapists. 'I'm sure there is a link between childhood abuse and DID, but some therapists are slightly naive in their approach and become more interested in the complexities of psychopathology rather than finding a solution. I've seen people with a dozen fully fledged personalities, which can be caused by poor therapy bringing them out.'