I was surprised to see the Institute of Alcohol Studies (IAS) quoted in a comment piece, (Minimum alcohol pricing? Blame those vomiting girls, 16 May), as noting "no discernible relationship between (alcohol) affordability and harm". This statement, taken in isolation from the report Trends in the affordability of alcohol in Europe, merely highlights that affordability is not the sole operating factor in cross-country comparisons of alcohol harm which in no way contradicts the finding that affordability is a strong factor within countries.It is no coincidence that, as drink has become cheaper in the UK (alcohol was 44% more affordable in 2010 than it was in 1980), hospital admissions, liver mortality rates and alcohol-related crimes have rocketed. This all comes at a cost – to individuals, families and communities, that, as a nation, we can't afford to ignore.There is a wealth of evidence to support alcohol price increases as an effective policy to reduce health and social problems: outcomes include reductions in liver deaths, suicides, hospital admissions, car accidents, youth fatalities, homicides, rapes, robberies, assaults, car theft, domestic violence and child abuse. The relationship between alcohol affordability and harmful consumption is indisputable. The coalition should be applauded for recognising this and taking action to tackle the problem of cheap drink through minimum unit pricing. Katherine BrownDirector of policy, Institute of Alcohol Studies• This talk of minimum unit price for alcohol will only put more money into the pockets of manufacturers. Might I suggest a sliding scale, seeing as pubs are losing out to supermarkets and are closing at an alarming rate. 1 Reduce the tax on draught beer (limited to 4.5%), any higher strength, tax to remain the same. 2 Poured drinks: tax to be the same. 3 Sealed drinks, ie those sold in supermarkets or shops: increase the tax according to alcohol content. 4 Alcoholic drinks not to be sold as a loss leader. 5 Tins and plastic bottles (with soft drinks and high sugar): an added tax to pay for clearing litter.Roy GillUlverston, Cumbria