A teenager wept when she was found guilty of murdering her father while he slept in his bed after a dispute over money.Antoni Robinson, 61, a retired antiques dealer, was stabbed 15 times with a kitchen knife and a commando-style army knife in Old Colwyn, north Wales, Mold crown court heard. He bled to death minutes after his jugular veins were slashed.A jury of seven women and five men unanimously found Ashleigh Robinson, 19, and her partner, Gordon Harding, 20, guilty of murder today.The trial heard Harding launched the fatal attack in the early hours of 7 July but he was "supported and encouraged" by his girlfriend. At the time of the murder, Harding was living in Robinson father's house with her and their baby.The jury was sent home for the weekend and will return on Monday to resume deliberations on two other defendants: a 16-year-old girl, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, and Sacha Roberts, 19. Both deny murder.Robinson broke down in tears as the forewoman of the jury read out the verdict, while Harding held his head in his hands after previously glancing at his girlfriend.The prosecutor, Andrew Thomas QC, told the court that Antoni Robinson suffered stab wounds to his face, neck and upper body, including four injuries to his back. The jugular veins on both side of his neck were severed.Thomas said Ashleigh Robinson encouraged and supported Harding as he carried out the murder, adding: "This killing was the tragic result of family disputes over money, jewellery and property."The murder followed the breakdown of Antoni Robinson's 25-year relationship with Ashleigh's mother, Joanne Barr, which led to rows over money.He had a safe in his bedroom in which valuables were kept, including jewellery belonging to Barr, and he informed his daughter that he had sold the jewellery, the court was told.Thomas said that shortly after the murder, Ashleigh Robinson sent her mother a text message that said: "Things happened, he is no more. Sorry mum. xxxx."Harding admitted stabbing Antoni Robinson, but claimed he was acting in self-defence."It appears that Mr Robinson had not been able to fight back or to escape," Thomas said. "We say Mr Robinson must have been completely overpowered by his attacker or attackers." Ornaments at the side of the bed were undisturbed, he said.Thomas said the defendants planned to sneak into the bedroom while Antoni Robinson was asleep and steal from a safe. After killing Robinson, Harding left his bloodstained clothes on the floor of the bedroom and showered.Earlier Thomas told the jury that the four defendants were guilty of murder because they supported and encouraged Harding and knew he was going into the bedroom armed with a knife.During the trial, Harding claimed he had lost control and could not remember inflicting all the injuries.