A former head of MI5 will play a key role in the government's new "British FBI", the home secretary, David Blunkett announced today.Sir Stephen Lander was named chairman of the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) - the first time an ex-spymaster has played such a crucial role in British policing.Sir Stephen had a 25-year career in the Security Service and served as director general from 1996 to 2002. He takes up the £120,000-a-year post at Soca - which unites police and other investigators in a war against organised criminals including drug smugglers, people traffickers and internet paedophiles - next month. As chairman he will be responsible for "setting the organisation's vision and overall strategy," said a Home Office spokesman. The current head of the National Crime Squad, Bill Hughes, was named director general of Soca and will be in operational control of its investigations. In what is expected to be one of the most high-profile jobs in British policing, Mr Hughes will clamp down on "Mr Bigs" and their criminal henchmen. The 53-year-old former deputy chief constable of Hertfordshire police will be paid up to £150,000 a year. Soca is due to come into operation in April 2006, subject to legislation being passed. Mr Blunkett said: "Sir Stephen has considerable experience of the management of intelligence, decisive leadership and a proven track record of public service which make him an exceptional asset to the organisation. "Mr Hughes has a proven career in the police service and in managing the police response to serious and organised crime. "Together they will give strategic vision and firm direction to this ground-breaking new organisation." He added: "Organised crime is big business. As criminals become more sophisticated, so we must raise our game to fight it. We must make better use of technology to stay ahead. "The creation of a single agency to tackle organised crime marks a step change in our efforts to reduce the harm it does to the UK and its citizens." Sir Stephen said: "The creation of the Soca will build on the considerable strengths of the existing national agencies and will provide the country with a single body focused on reducing the harm caused by organised crime. The Tories gave the appointments a cautious welcome. The shadow home secretary, David Davis, said the "devil was in the detail" and that the new body should not be a drain for the "brightest and best" staff from regional police forces. With about 5,000 investigators, Soca will merge Mr Hughes' current outfit, the National Crime Squad, with the National Criminal Intelligence Service and investigation units at Customs and Excise and the immigration service. A slice of the extra cash secured from the Treasury in the latest comprehensive spending review - boosting Home Office expenditure from £17.3bn in 2004-2005 to £20.1bn in 2007-2008 - will be spent on creating the new agency. In March, Mr Blunkett announced details of new powers which he wants to hand Soca officers. Criminal "godfathers" could be forced to hand over their bank statements for up to a decade after release from jail to prove they have gone straight. A Home Office white paper setting out a new strategy to tackle organised crime also proposed a new "supergrass" system. Criminals who "turn Queen's Evidence" could win immunity from prosecution, or have their sentence cut by more than two-thirds if they shop their gang bosses. Supergrasses could be eligible for a national witness protection programme, in a bid to avoid retribution from former accomplices. Sentences for drugs gangs could also be increased so that Class A drug smugglers face sentences of 20 years compared with the five to 14 years currently imposed, said the paper. Fewer than 1% of cases brought by Customs and Excise last year saw defendants turn Queen's Evidence under the existing case law system, compared with 26% in United States drug trafficking cases. Putting Queen's Evidence on a firm statutory basis could increase the figure substantially and help cut the £40bn a year that organised crime costs Britain, officials believe. The white paper also proposed creating a new offence of "belonging to an organised crime group". 