Police appealed yesterday for the criminal underworld to help find thugs responsible for a pair of unrelated street killings which have left two families devastated over the holiday period.Petty car thieves are thought to have kicked to death father-of-two Kevin Jackson after he chased them in Halifax, West Yorkshire, when they tried to steal his parents' car. Fifteen miles away in Leeds, a £10,000 reward was offered yesterday for the arrest of the killers of Robert Hanson, who was also kicked to death in the street while visiting relatives. West Yorkshire police said he had almost certainly been killed for his wallet. Both men had received head injuries, detectives said, with Mr Jackson, 31, never regaining consciousness after a skull fracture. Mr Hanson, 43, was stamped on repeatedly on his way to his aunt's, where he was organising the family Christmas. His father, Eddie Hanson, 77, who lived in Salford, Greater Manchester, with his batchelor son, said yesterday: "No body should have received the treatment that my Bobby did." Police are looking for three teenagers seen near the well lit footpath in Bramley, Leeds, where Mr Hanson is thought to have been attacked at about 1.30am. Witnesses have reported a car seen parked with its lights on in a Wickes DIY store car park near the scene. In Halifax, Det Supt Bob Bridgestock said Mr Jackson, a maintenance engineer with sons aged seven and 15 months, had chased the car thieves while his wife dialled 999. He was found shortly afterwards lying on the pavement by a passing taxi driver. Mr Bridgestock said: "This was an extremely sickening attack. Mr Jackson was sadistically left to die in the road." The victim of a third street attack, Ronald Bryant, 58, of Doncaster, died yesterday after being on life support in hospital since suffering severe head injuries outside his flat on Christmas Day. A 17-year-old youth, charged with causing him grievous bodily harm with intent, will reappear before Doncaster youth court magistrates today.