The disappearance of Amanda Dowler in March 2002 is one of Britain's most notorious unsolved crimes.The 13-year-old, known to her family as Milly, had been on her way home from school when she vanished, prompting a nationwide hunt that ended only when her remains were found by mushroom pickers six months later.During the search, her picture was displayed on the sides of lorries and handed out at football matches. Video footage of her dancing and laughing around the family's ironing board was played repeatedly on television. Milly was last seen just after 4pm on March 21 2002 when a school friend waiting for a bus saw her walking along Station Avenue near the family home in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey.An hour earlier, Milly had left Heathside school in Weybridge and caught a train to Walton-on-Thames station. There, she had gone to a cafe with friends and called her father from a friend's mobile to say she would be back in half an hour. The police were called at 7pm that night and immediately took her disappearance seriously. They searched the area and set up an incident room.In the days and weeks that followed, Milly's parents, Bob and Sally Dowler, appealed for information about their daughter. Her sister Gemma published an open letter pleading for her safe return and appeared on the children's news programme Newsround.A few months later, on Milly's 14th birthday, her parents spoke about how they had been texting Milly's mobile phone since she went missing in case she was able to receive their messages.Yesterday they said the murder had destroyed their lives, leaving them overwhelmed by anger and pain. In a joint statement they said the past six years had been "indescribable"."How can we find peace? How can we ever understand who could commit such an evil act and why?"Milly's remains were found in September 2002 in Yateley Heath woods in Hampshire, 20 miles from where she went missing. The huge police inquiry into her disappearance became a murder hunt and in 2005 detectives said they were investigating a possible link with a series of vicious attacks on other young women around south-west London, including the murder of French student Amelie Delagrange.At the same time, police revealed a vital new clue - a red car - which officers suspected could have been used in the abduction of Milly.Yesterday, the Dowler family, who launched a charity to educate young people about personal safety in October 2002, again appealed for anyone who had any information about their daughter to come forward.Bob and Sally described Milly as a beautiful, vivacious, kind-natured 13-year-old. "Not a day passes when we don't think of her. Our lives have been in turmoil ever since. Imagine not knowing how your daughter died, or where or when and by whose hand, and imagine how we as a family live. "Some days even the smallest of tasks seem insurmountable. The pain never goes away even though we have learned to live alongside it."As all her friends go off to university and carry on with their lives, we wonder about what she might have studied, the boyfriends she might have had, the places she might have lived; the day-to-day trivia we would have shared and, above all, how her many dreams and aspirations may have unfolded. Sadly we will never know."