A shiny £30m glass building complete with palm trees and escalators, it was meant to be a vast improvement on Manchester's grotty old magistrates court. Only a month after opening in the new Spinningfields development in the heart of the city, the court has been beset with difficulties.And what are called teething problems descended into ignominy on Friday morning when a 15cm (6in) kitchen knife was found taped to the dock in Court 17, used for remand prisoners. It is not clear who brought in the knife - but its presence was disturbing. Security was immediately tightened, while Greater Manchester police sent the knife for forensic tests. The discovery came as one solicitor described the new facilities as "a joke". The government's private finance initiative was supposed to vastly improve the administration of justice. The building was hailed as having proper access for people with disabilities, separate waiting rooms for victims of crime and defendants, and state-of-the-art security. It replaced a 30-year-old building around the corner which was a dreary concrete box. But the new building has only 18 courtrooms compared with 19 in the old, and it is already running over capacity. A courtroom has had to be set aside by Salford magistrates, a mile away, for at least six months to deal with the overflow. There was consternation when thousands of pounds were spent on huge palm trees that dominate a large glass atrium in the centre of the building.But Mike Lodge, a solicitor, said the big issue was security. "Magistrates are frequently queueing on the rear stairs with prisoners who have just been jailed," he said. "Prison vans are having difficulties getting into the secure area of the building." And, alluding to the knife, he said: "Clearly, security is lax" He also questioned the ground-floor set-up: "If there were a major terrorism suspect or a major bank robber, they could go up to the mezzanine floor virtually unchallenged. On this floor, members of the public and the legal profession have to share the same public canteen, so we can't discuss cases. "I think it is scandalous that such a large amount of public money has been put into this. The whole basis of PFI initiatives need to be properly scrutinised. "There is not one single facility which is an improvement on the old building, and they have spent £30m on it. Any solicitor would say they would prefer the old building. Morale is rock bottom." Michael Alexander, another Manchester solicitor, agreed: "It is very disappointing that we have waited three to five years for it to be built, and everybody in [it] is almost totally demoralised. I do not think there is one feature that is better than the old building." The listing system was in "total chaos". "We can't find where cases are listed," he added. "When we do find where they are listed, we can't get the the papers in court - so it is very rare that cases start on time at 10am." Mr Alexander said the advocates' room was little more than a broom cupboard - two chairs, a table and five coatpegs. And the custody area was "laughable". "There are five custody booths and it is the busiest court in the north of England. It really is a catalogue of shambles. The vans bringing people into custody are held up because the shutters do not work properly. Everybody is totally cheesed off." John Foley, head of divisional operations for courts in Greater Manchester, said such issues were being dealt with. "We have had a number of meetings with defence lawyers who have put forward their concerns. Some of the issues are related to the building, and there is not a great deal we can do about that." He denied that security was problematic, and pointed out that the main door now had security over and above that originally planned. "Once you get to the second floor, in order to get to the court side of the building, people have to go through the security arches." The new building's security overall was "far better" that the old building, which had a number of entrances. Greater Manchester police were investigating the knife. "It was not found by a member of the public," he added. "It was found as part of the standard security check procedures. How it got there is another matter. There are a whole range of possibilities - it could have been brought in by the people who own or run the building, or it could have been brought in by contractors working out of hours. "It is not just as straightforward as saying it has come through the security arches at the front of the building." He described the incident as part of "teething problems" that would take a few months to settle down. "Only this morning the telephone system is not working - which has nothing to do with the building. Someone has cut a cable while digging a hole in the ground. It is just a coincidence - but everyone assumes it is the fault of the court."