Clifford Norris, the younger brother of one of the suspects in the Stephen Lawrence murder, went on trial yesterday charged with stabbing a motorist after a traffic dispute.Norris, 20, of Chislehurst, Kent, was charged at Woolwich crown court with unlawfully wounding Gatri Hassan and possessing an offensive weapon in November last year.David Nathan, defending, suggested that Mr Hassan had mistaken Norris for his brother David after the publicity surrounding the public inquiry into the police handling of Stephen's murder. David Norris was one of the five suspects arrested but never tried for Stephen's murder in Eltham, south London, in 1993.Mr Hassan told the jury he had dropped some of his wife's relatives off in Eltham and was driving home through Bromley when a Peugot 106 braked sharply in front of him.Mr Hassan said he followed the car, and got to within about 30ft of it before it braked again. He got a good look at the driver, a white male in his early 20s.Mr Hassan said: 'He was banging on his driver's window in an angry fashion with a clenched fist. He was saying something but I could not hear. I raised my finger to my temple and said 'You are crazy'.' Mr Hassan said: 'He got out of his car, came walking towards me very fast, and was shouting. He was swearing and saying, 'Come on, do you want some?' 'At that point I noticed he had a fairly large knife in his right hand. The blade was at least six inches long, maybe more,' Mr Hassan said. 'I said, 'Look, just leave it'.' Mr Hassan said he was punched across his right eye, then 'I felt another hit above my right eye this time. I felt my eyebrow sliced open.' Earlier, Francis Sheridan, prosecuting, had told the jury that Mr Hassan remembered the registration of the car driven by the man who had attacked him. It belonged to Clifford Norris.When interviewed by police, Norris claimed he had been at a girlfriend's that night but refused to disclose her name or address.Mr Hassan said two or three people were there when he was attacked, shouting at his attacker to stop, then pulling him away.He said the following day he toured the area with police officers and saw a man matching his attacker's description pushing a white van on Downham Way.PC Lorraine Hilder said the defendant had voluntarily attended a police station and had agreed to take part in an identity parade.Putting the defence of mistaken identity, Mr Nathan, said: 'Let me suggest to you that the man you were describing was not this defendant but that you were describing his brother.' Mr Nathan said the description he had given of this man matched David Norris better than it did Clifford Norris.He also asked Mr Hassan if he had heard any of those present when he was attacked call the defendant by a name.Mr Nathan read part of Mr Hassan's statement to police, which said: 'When I heard them say his name, I thought I have got to get out of here.' Mr Hassan said he had not heard exactly what the name was.Press cuttings showing a picture of David Norris were then given to Mr Hassan and the jury as Mr Nathan continued to query Mr Hassan's description of his attacker.The trial continues today.