The news that the Metropolitan Police is to reopen the investigation into the murder of PC Keith Blakelock comes as no surprise to me. The truth is that every time the black community of Tottenham feels that the scales of justice are finally turning in our direction, the Met does its best to remind us where power really lies.My name is Stafford Scott; I worked as the senior youth and community worker on Broadwater Farm Estate, Tottenham, in the immediate aftermath of 6 October 1985, a date now synonymous with the 'Tottenham riots' and the murder of PC Blakelock. I was arrested three times during the Farm investigations, twice on the grounds that I was involved in the Blakelock murder; I was never charged and successfully sued the police for their impertinence. My younger brother was charged with riot and affray; he was also found not guilty. My elder brother was charged with offences resulting from the raid on our family home to arrest me; he, too, was found not guilty of any offence and successfully sued the Met. Although I became a major target in the police investigation, I have also gained the somewhat 'privileged' position of being one of the few black men who can say publicly: 'I was there, I saw it from the start.' Because of what I saw that night - racist policing designed to suppress the community's right to protest at the death of a black mother - I was to become one of the 'leaders' of the Broadwater Farm Defence Campaign and, as such, have followed the police investigation and resulting court cases avidly. The prelude to this latest investigation, a case review, began almost to the day Winston Silcott was awarded damages of £50,000 in an out-of-court settlement from the Met. We were told at that time that it would take a year to complete, but it has taken more than three years, and news that there is now to be a new full-blown police inquiry comes just a few weeks after Winston's release from prison. This has nothing to do with justice, this is about revenge. A bobby was killed in horrific circumstances and no one has paid for it. It was OK as long as Winston was locked up, even though he was acquitted of this crime almost a decade ago. Isn't it strange that for 18 years the Met and the majority of the media have gone to great lengths to convince us that all the evidence led to Winston, yet now that he is free they have miraculously identified six new suspects? They claim to have gleaned new information by going over all the 6,000 statements that they took in the original investigation. However, that investigation has been discredited in the Court of Appeal; the forensic ESDA test revelations proved conclusively that Winston had been framed. So damning was the evidence against the police who led the original inquiry that the prosecutor, Roy Amlot QC, uttered the following words in response to a question from defence counsel: 'The answer is, unequivo cally, we would not have gone against Braithwaite, against Raghip, or against any other defendants having learned of the apparent dishonesty of the officer in charge of the case.' In essence, the Crown was accepting what the Broadwater Farm Defence Campaign had been saying all along - that this was a corrupt investigation Revenge, however, is not justice. The statements that the Met refer to now are, in many cases, complete fantasy and were dismissed as such by Mr Justice Hodgson, the judge in the original trial. This time around, I do not believe the judiciary is going to be as compliant and gullible as it was in 1987. Another thing that will not be the same is the community. We can never be made to be as frightened now as we were then. Like an army of occupation, hundreds of the Met's finest 'took back' the estate and stayed for almost 18 months. At the same time, armed police squads were dragging us to police stations all over London, denying us access to solicitors, and fitting up the most vulnerable among us. Some things have changed, though, now that the world knows about the 'institutional racism' within the Met. It would be nice to think that, as a result, white Britain will not turn its back on us as it did then. The initial investigation into the disturbances on Broadwater Farm was said to be the most expensive and intensive in the history of British policing. Since then, we have had at least two more equally intensive investigations. We will probably never be told the full costs. I do know one thing, though. If the Met employed just 1 per cent of the resources used in these investigations on stopping the guns and drugs from pervading our cities, my community would be in a healthier state. If the Met spent 1 per cent of the time and expense on investigating crimes committed against black people, especially crimes committed against us by the police, then there would be no need for riots. The Met had its chance of honouring its dead officer by getting it right the first time. It failed miserably, and it's time it accepted that because of its thirst for vengeance the real murderers of Keith Blakelock may never be found. · Stafford Scott is director of the Bernie Grant Trust