Stun guns that paralyse victims with a high-powered electric shock will be used in Britain for the first time within months to help police tackle the growing menace of knife attacks by criminals and the mentally unstable, the Guardian can reveal.The Metropolitan police has decided to deploy the "taser" weapon as soon as possible after a review of incidents which had put officers in extreme danger. Under plans approved by the Met commissioner, Sir John Stevens, the taser should be in operation "by Christmas", providing a lead that other forces in England and Wales are likely to follow. The taser fires a two-pronged dart that overrides the central nervous system and causes uncontrollable muscle contractions. The spasms nearly always cause targets to curl into a foetal position. Though there have been concerns about the effect the shock could have on people with pacemakers, the Met believes the risks are small and should be set against the value of having a non-lethal weapon to use in certain dangerous situations. Senior officers point to the death two weeks ago of Andrew Kernan, a schizophrenic who was shot by Merseyside police as he wielded a samurai sword outside a pub. They believe this is the sort of incident where the taser might come into its own to prevent a tragedy. The Met has decided to press ahead with buying tasers even though the Association of Chief Police Officers has yet to finish its review of the weapon. The force felt it could not wait for the association's findings after considering an internal report which showed Met officers were increasingly threatened by knife-carrying attackers, many of whom were drunk or on drugs. CS spray has not been effective in these circumstances, leaving officers with no option other than calling for armed back-up, with the inevitable possibility that someone might get shot. Met assistant commissioner Mike Todd has been reviewing the types of non-lethal weapons available to the police in recent months and was impressed by the taser, which is used in US cities including Los Angeles. The latest models promise to "debilitate a target regardless of pain tolerance or mental focus" and are "specifically designed to stop even the most elite, aggressive, focused combatants [providing] maximum safety for both the officer and the subject by bringing dangerous situations under control before force escalates to lethal levels". The dart is guided by a laser sight and can be fired from 30ft. It is attached to the "gun" by a thin wire which shoots an electric current from batteries stored in the handset. Sir John approved Mr Todd's plans to deploy the tasers as soon as possible. Assistant commissioner David Veness, head of Scotland Yard's special operations division, is considering safety issues and guidelines to be followed by users. The aim at first is to equip officers in the Met's 30 armed response units, known as the Trojan patrols. Trojan officers are firearms specialists and will require only a day-long course to get accustomed to the taser weapons, which cost £200 each. Later, the Met hopes to give tasers to the Territorial Support Group, which deals with riots and other public disorder. PCs will not be given tasers because the weapons are too bulky and look too much like firearms. Liberty, the civil rights group, said last night that the police should use taser weapons only for defensive purposes, to "fill the gap" between using a CS spray and a firearm. "Police have to be allowed to defend themselves and stunning someone rather than shooting them has to be a good thing," said spokesman Roger Bingham. "The issue is helping the police to level down the force they need to use, not escalate their armoury. The police must have proper guidelines in place to ensure the weapon is used correctly." There is certain to be concern about the health risks. The weapon that will be bought by Scotland Yard is likely to be the Advanced Taser M26. Its American makers warn that while no long-term injuries have been caused by the weapons, "any violent confrontation carries a degree of risk that someone will get hurt or may even be killed due to unforeseen circumstances and individual susceptibilities". Amnesty International has campaigned against the use of tasers in US jails, saying they "dangerously blur the line between torture and legitimate prisoner control techniques"How the taser stops its target• The taser looks like a bulky handgun. It fires a two-pronged dart, which can pierce most types of clothing, up to 30ft • The dart is propelled by an air cartridge, which is attached to the handset by a length of thin wire. This carries the charge from the battery to the dart • The taser has a laser sight to help targeting • The most up-to-date tasers use "electro-muscular disruption technology" to paralyse victims. The charge causes uncontrollable muscle contractions • Each weapon costs about £200 and firearms officers will only require a day's training Special reportPolicing crimeTalk about itWhat do you think?