The leading defence barrister in the 1998 Billie-Jo Jenkins murder trial said today he would have called two of Siôn Jenkins' other daughters as witnesses had he not been led to believe their evidence would be "disastrous" to his case.Anthony Scrivener QC told the court of appeal in London that he would have put Charlotte and Annie Jenkins in the witness box if he had known that their evidence would have been helpful to his client. He said he did not learn this until years after the trial. He was asked if his decision not to call them was influenced by a psychiatrist's opinion that having to give evidence in court about their sister's murder might damage them. Mr Scrivener said: "The physical or mental welfare of the children was a factor, but not a determinant. My client was charged with murder and, if I thought they were required to assist in his defence, I would not have hesitated to call them." As it was, he and his fellow defence lawyers were faced with police memoranda of statements made by the girls' mother, Lois Jenkins, indicating that the children had changed their original video-taped accounts, which would have helped their father, and were now extremely hostile towards him. "I did not know what they were going to say," said Mr Scrivener. "If they were going to say what was in the original tapes, it would have been helpful to the defence. If they were going to say what was in the memoranda, he might as well plead guilty." Mr Scrivener was giving evidence in the renewed appeal by Jenkins, who claims that his now ex-wife Lois gave misleading information to the police because she was convinced he was guilty and did not want him to return home to her and their four natural daughters. Charlotte Jenkins yesterday told the appeal hearing how she came upon the battered body of her foster sister Billie-Jo, and described her deep confusion after her father was accused of murdering her. Ms Jenkins, now 18, remembered being worried that if she incriminated Jenkins, a deputy headteacher, he might not like her ever again.She also told the court of appeal that it was possible she may have said to her mother Lois that she "knew" her father had killed 13-year-old Billie-Jo.Ms Jenkins had flown in from Tasmania, where she, her mother and three sisters now live, to give evidence which Jenkins hopes will help prove he did not kill his foster daughter. Lois Jenkins is expected to give evidence for the crown. Siôn Jenkins, 46, was convicted of murdering his foster daughter Billie-Jo at their family home in Hastings, East Sussex. The prosecution case was that Jenkins murdered her with a metal tent spike.The appeal continues.