Victims of around 7 million crimes do not get the support they need due to lack of funding, the national charity for people affected by crime announced today.Victim Support, responsible for the majority of the nation's services to victims and witnesses, says more funds and volunteers are urgently needed to keep up with growing demand. Its report, 30:30 Vision, is published today to mark Victim Support Week and the charity's 30th anniversary.Support networks are unavailable to victims of unsolved crimes, as well as to those of racist, sexual or domestic offences who fear reprisals if they go to the police. Only three out of 50 people who reported crimes see their case go to court.The charity has identified three new initiatives it has developed but cannot offer for lack of funding. A programme to help young victims of crime would cost £4.5m a year. A national recruitment and training programme for volunteers to support those affected by rape and sexual assault would cost £500,000. To pay for a domestic violence development worker in every county or city would cost £1.5m.Victim Support said: "These are services which we have developed but we can't properly roll them out because we haven't got the funds."With 12,000 trained volunteers and 1,000 employees, Victim Support runs its witness service in every criminal court. It receives £30m a year in funding from the government, which represents just £1 for every £500 of public money spent on the criminal justice system. It helps around 1.7 million people a year.The chief executive of Victim Support, Dame Helen Reeves, said: "The government deserves to be congratulated for its work in ensuring that victims and witnesses will receive better treatment in the criminal justice system. We lobbied for this to happen and it is a very positive result in our short history. "But society as whole, including the media, local government and the public services, now need to change their agendas and recognise that the effects of crime, if neglected, can do untold damage to individuals, families and to entire communities. "Victim Support has achieved a great deal. But with more support we could improve the lives of many of those who now struggle to cope with the devastating effects of crime alone." The Home Office said: "We welcome Victim Support's endorsement of the work the government has been doing to improve the experiences of victims and witnesses using the criminal justice system."