On the evening of Saturday 17 January 1981, Yvonne Ruddock was celebrating her 16th birthday among friends and family. Gerry Francis, a friend, was pumping out a menu of reggae music – Bob Marley and the Wailers, Big Youth, Dennis Brown.Suddenly an explosion rent the party asunder. Blazing flames transformed dance into blood and hellfire. At the end of this holocaust there were nine dead. By 9 February four more had died.That was exactly 30 years ago and my heart still sinks in despair at the New Cross fire. With all the forensic facilities at Scotland Yard's disposal, in spite of eyewitnesses who saw a white man who pulled up at the house in an Austin Princess and slung a Molotov cocktail into the party, despite the milk bottle with a fitted wick found at the base of the window sill, the authorities have still been unable to tell us the cause(s) of the fire.In the decade before the inferno black youngsters had been one of the most rebellious sections of British society. Demonstrations, pickets, fisticuffs spread through the capital. Campaigns against the "sus" laws drew in serious political figures. The battle royale against the police at the Notting Hill carnival in 1976 struck a chord among Caribbean teenagers. Under the slogan, Black Power, they had brought their grievances to the fore.In the muddle of political action a single phrase emerged to capture the feeling. "School today, jail tomorrow" rent the air as pupils of Tulse Hill comprehensive in south London protested at the raw circumstances of their schooling.Enter Margaret Thatcher, who spoke about the "swamping" of British culture by immigrants. I have no doubt that she was referring to the appearance of huge swathes of young Caribbeans. Jill Knight, from her platform as a Birmingham MP, turned on our youth, howling about noisy parties. She appeared to condone direct action against them.It was clear by the Tuesday following the fire that Caribbeans were on the move. An "assembly of the people" was declared by a crowd of about 500. All decisions about how we responded to the police and the authorities were to be taken at this forum. On the following Sunday 2,000 people gathered at the Moonshot Youth Club, paid their respects to the dead and devoted themselves to the struggle for justice.The assembly took evidence from all those at the party. We were able to track the police investigation and discovered very quickly that they were forcing statements out of those who attended the party without lawyers or parents present.The bombs and the bomb theory disappeared, to be replaced by the idea that the fire resulted from a fight breaking out. At our meetings we could easily undermine this theory with the help of witnesses. The police and their handmaidens in the press could not undermine the authenticity of the people.Out of the blue a call for a public demonstration received a standing ovation and I was voted the organiser. The following morning I headed to Liverpool, then to Preston, Bradford and Leeds to gather support. Nottingham and Birmingham followed.The day before the demonstration the Daily Mail reported that several partygoers had been arrested and that charges would follow. It was a barefaced lie.The Black People's Day of Action, with 20,000 demonstrators marching 17 miles from Deptford to Hyde Park, was proof that the social movement was unstoppable. Two weeks later the Metropolitan police launched Operation Swamp, to stop and search black youths in Brixton. We could not know that the community would rise up a month later. The slogan of that dark night, as Brixton was set alight, acclaimed: "This is for New Cross." That summer Liverpool, Bradford, Handsworth, Leeds and many other black communities joined the insurrection.Today, though, little has changed. Black people are still seven times more likely than white people to be targeted by police. Under section 44 of the 2000 Terrorism Act, parliament granted police the power to stop and search black and Asian people willy-nilly until the European court of human rights last year declared the practice illegal.I have spoken to youths aplenty, and welling up within them is the inevitable thirst for violent retaliation. Perhaps the quote from Bongo Jerry, a Jamaican dub poet, expresses the sentiment best: "Sooner or later but must the dam going to bust/and every man will break out/What force can stop this river of man/who already knows its course."Over Deptford a racist stench continues to pollute the air. The educational institution built in memory of Stephen Lawrence was desecrated with racist graffiti most foul. Plus ça change.We shall not forget.