The powers in the government's crime bill to seize the ill-gotten gains of drug traffickers breach the Human Rights Act, according to a human rights lawyer.Claire Montgomery QC, of Matrix Chambers, says the bill which will form part of next Wednesday's Queen's speech, will not only "destroy the essence of the presumption of innocence" but also could lead to "arbitrary and irrational results". The legal opinion obtained by Liberty, the civil rights group, from a barrister who was involved in General Pinochet's defence team will put in doubt the Home Office claim that the legislation will comply with the Human Rights Act. The legislation will set up a criminal assets recovery agency to target the assets of convicted drug traffickers. Its aim will be to follow the "money trail" in each case through bureaux de change and offshore accounts if necessary, to convict them, and remove their money and passports. Successive governments have battled to find a legal way of seizing such ill-gotten gains. The new bill will mean that those accused will have to prove, on the civil standard of the balance of probabilities, that their assets are not derived from criminal conduct or face a criminal confiscation order. The Montgomery opinion says that it is wrong to place a burden of proof on a defendant in this way. It also says that it is wrong for ministers to intro duce "civil confiscation orders" in circumstances where they do not have sufficient evidence to prosecute them in the criminal courts. In opposite cases where there is sufficient evidence for criminal prosecution it would be wrong for the state to opt for the easier path of pursuing someone in the civil courts. John Wadham, director of Liberty, said he accepted that there was a need to put forward legislation to "disable the criminal economy" but he said the powers proposed were draconian. "These proposals will create a system in which accusations by the police will be enough to force people to disclose all their private financial affairs, first to the police and then in public at the trial. "When it comes to the decision itself there will be no jury and the judge will take the decision on the balance of probabilities - a person will be convicted on the basis that they are 'probably' guilty." But a Home Office spokesperson said the government would ensure the proceeds of crime bill was consistent with the European convention on human rights. "The privy council has ruled that the use of assumptions in confiscation cases is consistent with the European convention. With regard to civil recovery, there are a number of safeguards built into the draft bill, in particular that the burden of proof will be on the state in the form of the criminal assets recovery agency."The human rights act in full