Scotland Yard yesterday appealed for the public's help in solving the murder of an Israeli found dead in a central London hotel, in what may have been an international gangland hit.Police discovered the body of Simon Turkov, 45, in a room on the seventh floor of the Marriott near Marble Arch on March 28. He had been strangled or suffocated. Metropolitan officers went to the hotel after being alerted when officers from Kent police found a Marriott compliments slip in a bin. Detective Chief Inspector Julian Worker, heading the Met homicide investigation, refused to comment on allegations that the victim had links with international drug dealers. But there were claims that Mr Turkov was a convicted drug smuggler, who spent time in jail in Israel, and that he may have been killed by the Russian mafia because he had failed to pay huge debts. Police are looking to see if his killers came to Britain through the Channel tunnel and escaped back to France. Mr Turkov visited the Grosvenor casino the night before he died, and there is CCTV footage of him in the early hours of that Sunday morning, after he left the casino, walking along the street with another man, whom officers are still trying to trace. The victim, 1.73 metres (5ft 8in) tall and of medium build, was a frequent visitor to London casinos. Detectives are trying to establish any links he may have had with drug dealers or gangs in Britain or abroad. Initially they were baffled as to his identity, but have now established his real name, though he held an Israeli passport in the name of Yermia Yunataev. He is thought to have lived Dorset with his wife and daughters in the 80s and 90s, and has relatives in Israel. But police have yet to establish his last known address, thought to be in Israel, or when he last arrived in the UK. Met officers flew to Tel Aviv this week to find out more. Preliminary tests showed Mr Turkov died from asphyxiation, and may have been strangled or suffocated. A full postmortem report is awaited to confirm the cause of death. Detectives are trying to find out all they can about the dead man's connections in Britain, and build up a picture of his final hours. In particular, they want to interview the man seen on CCTV walking along Gloucester Road north toward Cromwell Road with him at 3.45am on Sunday, March 28. This man is described as white, about 35 years old, with receding hair. Officers also want to speak to a taxi driver who took Mr Turkov back to the Marriott in a black Comcab at 9.05am. He arrived alone, stayed in the bar for 45 minutes, then took the elevator to his room at 9.50am. DCI Worker said: "My officers are trying to piece together Simon Turkov's movements on the weekend he was murdered. We need to know where in London or the UK he was staying. "I'd like to speak to estate agents, hotel owners or those who rent accommodation if they think he may have been staying at their property. He may also have been using the name Yermia Yunataev. "We are still trying to trace the man seen with with Simon walking along Gloucester Road in the early hours of Sunday morning. "I want to know where the two men went next. "If you're a cab driver and were working in the area at that time, do you recognise the two men? Did you pick them up? Even in the early hours of a Sunday morning this is a busy part of central London and I'm confident there are people out there who can help. "I'm still seeking the black Comcab driver who dropped Mr Turkov off at the hotel at 9.05am. He may have information." DCI Worker refused to comment on any possible links with international criminal gangs. But he confirmed that his team were liaising with officers from other police forces abroad, and that he was keeping an open mind about a motive for the murder. Anyone with information should contact Belgravia police on 020-7321 7228, or phone the anonymous Crimestoppers line 0800 555111.