David Blunkett is to push courts to abandon prison sentences below six months in an attempt to tackle the growing crisis of overcrowding in Britain's jails.The Home Secretary will announce in a major Bill on criminal justice later this year that courts should avoid giving short sentences wherever possible because it does not give enough time for rehabilitation programmes to make any difference. The move would vastly reduce the pressure on prisons in which more than half of the prisoners are serving short sentences. If no prisoner was serving a sentence of six months or less, the male prison population would be cut by more than 40,000 from the present record level of 73,000. The Home Office says sentences for serious offences such as rape and assault would be increased at the same time. 'All the evidence reveals that short sentences do not work,' a Home Office official said. 'We want courts to use the powers of community sentences more often.' Sentences of less than six months will be used only in 'limited circumstances', the official said. This weekend Rob Thomas, chairman of the union representing probation officers, said that if strong action were not taken, the prison population could rise to an unsustainable total of 90,000 by 2006. Blunkett's move will be backed by the Prison Governors' Association, which represents the groups running prisons. 'We have to remove the powers of magistrates to sentence people to prison, restrict that to district judges, and come up with improved community penalties, such as confiscation orders, instead of fiddling while Rome burns,' said David Roddan, general secretary of the PGA. 'I was talking a while ago to a colleague who got ten lorry drivers in for tachograph offences, each sentenced to two months in prison. What is the point of that? Why don't you just fine them? If they don't pay the fine, then you seize goods.' Governors have also proved hesitant to use powers to release prisoners early with electronic tags for fear of being blamed by politicians if something went wrong. The Government is also planning a network of 'weekend jails', where prisoners would be locked up at weekends but free to work or live with their families during the week, to take the pressure off the system.