The home secretary, Jack Straw, is to tell the police and councils to make much greater use of anti-social behaviour orders against young thugs as part of a new drive against alcohol-fuelled violence.Mr Straw is to tell the police they do not need to wait for local authority backing before they take out the orders against loutish behaviour. They enable the courts to threaten to jail teenagers and neighbours who indulge in persistent disorder but which falls short of full-blown criminal behaviour. So far only 70 orders have been made, mostly against neighbours who engage in criminal behaviour. But the home secretary will tell the Local Government Association on Wednesday that they "should be used swiftly where circumstances demand it, not just against the very hard cases of unacceptable behaviour". Mr Straw confirmed yesterday that he expects the next batch of annual recorded crime figures, to be published next month, will show a sharp rise in violent crime - possibly by up to 19% and a 3.8% rise in all recorded crime over the past year. "We have a general problem of drink-related violence in our society, particularly amongst younger men, which we have got to deal with, and it's one of the reasons why the violent crime figures are going up," Mr Straw told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost yesterday. "When crime goes up, it's not good news, of course ... What we have got is a particular problem in our society, which we all have to talk about and deal with, which is of drink-related violence. We have also, in some of the main cities, London, Birmingham, Manchester and so on, got problems of street crime. We have put £20m into those police forces to be able to target the robbers." The home secretary renewed his call to the crown courts to follow the guidance of the court of appeal and pass much tougher sentences on those convicted of street robbery. He said recent figures showed that sentences for street robbery were becoming shorter on average while prison terms for every other offence were getting longer. The Home Office is also to bring in measures to tackle the link between drink and violent crime including ending uniform closing times and cracking down hard on rogue landlords. Shadow home secretary Ann Widdecombe said the expected rise in the violent crime figures wasn't surprising "when police numbers have fallen sharply, when violent prisoners are being let out before their due release date, and when the automatic life sentence, which we introduced for a second serious violent offence, is accompanied by low tariffs". •Police cadet forces could be introduced in secondary schools under plans being considered by the Conservatives. The intention is to boost recruitment following several years of falling numbers. The scheme would mirror the existing army cadet programme, which operates at schools and universities. It would be open to 16- to 18-year-olds.