A teenage boy, Kodjo Yenga of Notting Hill, is cornered by a gang shouting "kill him" then stabbed to death at 5.30 in the afternoon. He'd previously done a television interview in which he said stabbings were getting worse, but the media were exaggerating the problem. A couple of days earlier, there was a triple stabbing of teenagers in Hornchurch. Another teenager was stabbed to death in Plaistow over the weekend. So it's just London, then? Not at all. In the same short period, three men were stabbed to death in Manchester. Scotland has a knife crime problem too.Is it just stabbing? Again, no. Last month three schoolboys were killed in south London - two 15-year-olds shot dead in their home and a 16-year-old shot at an ice rink, followed by another fatal stabbing nearby. Something terrible is happening in our inner cities. We all know this, but hardly talk about it.Oh, we talk about the stabbings. There is a voyeuristic fascination at the final moments of a 15-year-old being chased down a street and killed by a chanting gang in broad daylight. News bulletins bring us the grieving parents, the stunned friends, the piles of flowers and the movingly inarticulate farewell messages in felt-tip pen. We learn about the famous people living nearby, and the spiral of violence among school gangs. But then the world moves on, until the next shooting, the next stabbing.I suspect, though I cannot prove, that there is a racist tinge to the reaction of the majority. People think, but don't say, well, it's only black on black, or Asian on Asian for that matter. It is one gang of uncivilised young thugs against another (though Kodjo was neither a gang member nor a young thug). Keep out of their way, and these murders will continue but won't touch us. When the people involved are young and white, another defence mechanism kicks in: "Well, it happened outside a pub/nightclub in the small hours. If you're not young, male and drinking in the wrong place, this won't touch you."There are two problems with this. There is the liberal problem. To say it is "only black on black" is a way of thinking that writes off a large group of people as being less than human. Two hundred years on from the abolition of slavery, it is not so different from the thinking that denied black people brotherhood. Some teenagers, with their hoodies, swagger and deliberate air of menace can challenge adult society to recoil, to write them off. But we have to do better than that.There is also the conservative problem, which is that this spreading violence does touch people beyond the gangs and will do so more, the longer it goes on. The Metropolitan police says 60,000 fewer crimes were committed last year, as against 2005, the fourth year in a row that crime fell. Burglaries were at a 31-year low, which puts some perspective on the crime hysteria in many newspapers. The one area that remains very worrying is violent street crime - robbery - which was up 6 %. Behind the headline stabbings and murders, there is a simmering level of street violence that is growing.It needs to be addressed. The same gangs whose self-proclaimed "soldiers" are dying in turf wars and confrontations about status, gain their macho strut through robbery and drug dealing. The less they are challenged, the more dangerous the streets will become for everyone. It isn't simply about proximity though, as it happens, Kodjo died just round the corner from my daughters' school. Most London teenagers I come across, whatever their skin colour and affluence, expect to be mugged, or have been, often several times. Recent examples include two 14-year-old girls held up with a sharpened screwdriver and a knife in separate incidents, and a young boy smashed across the head. This has become routine. Often, the police aren't even told. It is how things are - the streets are dangerous, get over it.You sometimes hear the argument that muggings mostly happen between teenagers, keen for the latest mobile phone or iPod, and thus don't matter much in the longer run. Again, this is dangerously misconceived. Teenagers who get into the habit of carrying knives or guns are not automatically going to stop when they become adults. More than that, corrosive mutual suspicions form in young people's minds. The opposite of a multicultural society, a country of tribes, is in danger of forming because of what is happening on the streets. Childhood experiences shape adult attitudes.Professor David Wilson, from the University of Central England in Birmingham, who has been researching knife-carrying, points out that it has become endemic, and that kids are going out armed for two reasons. First, because they are scared of being attacked themselves and think the adult world won't help. Second, knives offer a badge of masculinity, as do guns. Fear, and a sense of self, are among the most powerful human emotions. They aren't going to be overcome by a change to sentencing guidelines. Nor is the knife culture going to be dealt with by more knife amnesties. Knives are just too easy to get hold of. The author of one report last year, Chris Eades of Kings College London's Centre for Crime and Justice Studies, put it well: "Knives will be available as long as there is unsliced bread."We need to listen to teenagers who want to see the problem taken seriously. It will mean a serious and sustained assault on gang culture; a huge injection of money into inner-city education; targeted help with employment, which will involve some positive discrimination; and an extension of visible policing in the areas affected, to try to remove some of the sense of fear. All this will have to be sustained for many years, a case of the government waging a war on terror that is more humble and closer to home than the other one.But this war is more winnable. There aren't so many gangs. This is a social problem whose news impact and long-term danger is far greater than the number of kids involved. There is still time to reach them, and help them back into a safer world. Doing so will make our cities friendlier and people less suspicious. It will also save the lives of many bright, funny, insolent but much-loved teenage boys who, as things stand, would be remembered with a pile of dried-out roses and a "luv U bruva" card, while the wider world tuts, and turns the page.jackie.ashley@theguardian.com