The Soham caretaker Ian Huntley was sectioned under the Mental Health Act 1983 when he was arrested and charged with the murders of Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman.After he underwent 50 days of psychological assessment at Rampton high security hospital, a judge declared that on the evidence provided by experts he was fit to stand trial. Since then he has been held at Woodhill prison near Milton Keynes in Buckinghamshire, and is awaiting trial - planned for October 6. These are the events that led to him being taken to hospital yesterday: ·  August 17 2002 Huntley and Maxine Carr are arrested in the early hours of the morning and taken to separate police stations on suspicion of murdering Holly and Jessica. At 1pm the bodies of the girls are found seven miles from Soham ·  August 18 The police are granted an extra 36 hours to question Huntley and Carr in connection with the abduction and murder of the 10-year-olds ·  August 19 Police granted a "further and final" 36-hour extension to question the pair, who both appear at a late-night court hearing ·  August 20 Huntley is charged with the murder of Holly and Jessica, and detained under the Mental Health Act 1983 at Rampton high security hospital. Carr, a former teaching assistant in the girls' class, is charged with attempting to pervert the course of justice and held at Holloway prison in north London ·  August 21 Carr heckled by jeering crowds who line the route into Peterborough magistrates court, where she is remanded for eight days. Huntley remains at Rampton hospital for psychological assessment to determine whether he is fit to stand trial · August 23 Inquests open into the deaths of Holly and Jessica ·  August 29 Carr appears at Peterborough magistrates court via a video link to prevent a repeat of the ugly scenes at her first appearance. Remanded for 28 days ·  August 30 Families of Holly and Jessica attend a memorial service at Ely Cathedral  · September 10 Huntley is remanded for 28 days, after making his first appearance charged with the murders. Peterborough magistrates send him back to Rampton after an application by the hospital for time for further assessment ·  September 27 Carr appears before Peterborough crown court via prison video-link charged with attempting to pervert the course of justice. She is remanded to reappear at Norwich crown court on November 15 ·  October 8 Fifty days after being sectioned under the Mental Health Act, Huntley is declared fit to stand trial for murder. Peterborough crown court remands him to Woodhill high security prison near Milton Keynes ·  October 14 Carr is refused bail pending trial during a bail application at Norwich crown court ·  October 17 Huntley and Carr are further questioned by detectives at a police station in Cambridgeshire after being taken from their prison cells by officers leading the investigation ·  November 15 Norwich crown court remands Huntley and Carr to the Old Bailey for trial. Neither appears and no date is set ·  January 16 2003  Carr additionally charged twice, once for each girl, with providing a false accounts of Huntley's and her whereabouts and activities at the relevant times  · January 24 A provisional date for the trial of Huntley and Carr is set during a 40-minute Old Bailey hearing. Trial judge Mr Justice Moses says jury will be sworn in on October 6. Huntley and Carr are not present ·  April 16 Huntley denies the murders at an Old Bailey plea and directions hearing. It is the first time he and Carr have appeared together. Carr pleads not guilty to two charges of assisting an offender and one of conspiring to pervert the course of justice