A man has been arrested on suspicion of murder after a woman's body was found inside a suitcase on the bank of the river Thames, it emerged today.The woman was found on Monday at Barnes, south-west London, in a black Samsonite case, which had split partly open to disclose its contents. Police confirmed today that the victim was Adeeba Ahmed, a 27-year-old Pakistani national of Langley, Slough, in Berkshire, who went missing on Saturday February 14. A 28-year-old man was arrested overnight and was being held in custody at a central London police station on suspicion of her murder.Ms Ahmed, who was a check-in assistant at Heathrow airport, was last seen alive on Saturday afternoon at around 2pm when she was dropped off by her husband in Hounslow high street. She had said she planned to visit a hairdresser and go shopping and had arranged to call her husband for a lift later that afternoon. But she still had not called by that evening when the couple had been planning to go out for dinner. She was reported missing in the early hours of Sunday February 15. She had not contacted friends or family members or responded to messages left on her mobile phone.Ms Ahmed, originally from Feltham, Middlesex, moved to Slough with her husband in November of last year. She worked as a check-in assistant at Heathrow's terminal three.The Metropolitan police said today that, following consultation with Thames Valley police, they had concluded the body is that of Ms Ahmed. Formal identification was due to take place later today. The body was recovered from the Thames after a passer-by spotted the case washed up eight feet from the steep riverbank at Barnes. The case is believed to have been washed up on Sunday morning or earlier, and was believed to have been dumped in the river recently, as the body had not decomposed. Yesterday a post-mortem examination showed she had been strangled, but there were no signs of a sexual attack or other violent assault. Police said the body had not been dismembered, but her shoes had been removed to squeeze her into the case. Officers are seeking any witnesses who might have seen the suitcase being carried near the Thames. Anyone with information about the murder is asked to call the incident room at Belgravia police station on 020-7321 9251, or Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800-555 111.