The poster shows a little girl sitting on a sofa. Her face is grotesquely old and worn. Behind her a man runs his fingers through her hair. In another scene, a young boy, his face aged and lined, is shown standing in a public toilet in front of an undressing man. The controversial images are part of a new campaign by the children's charity Barnardo's to highlight the alarming rise in the number of children being lured into prostitution. Amid claims that the Government is doing little to tackle the problem, the charity hopes that the shocking new images will force Ministers to act. Backed by the Metropolitan Police, the 'Stolen Childhood' series comes two years after Barnardo's caused outrage with a homelessness campaign which showed a photograph of a baby injecting heroin. The poster caused a furore and narrowly escaped a ban by the Advertising Standards Authority. This time the subject is even more taboo and the charity is bracing itself for criticism, but it is unrepentant about the need to shock to get the message home.'The increase in child prostitution is a worrying new trend,' said Barnardo's policy officer, Tink Palmer. 'Children as young as nine are known to have been abused through prostitution. Over the past three years we have worked with 2,215 children who have been abused. 'These children have been entrapped, coerced, and beaten. Their childhoods have been stolen, yet the law does little or nothing to protect them. It's time this changed.' Barnardo's wants legislation to create five new offences: to groom a child for the purpose of sexual exploitation, to buy the sexual services of a child, to recruit or force a child into prostitution, and to receive money for or to participate in the sexual exploitation of a child. At present few men are charged if they are found with a child prostitute and pimps face only the minor offence of living off immoral earnings. 'There is a serious lack of political will. We have the proof that we need new legislation to protect children simply in the growth of the number of children using our services,' said Palmer. Barnardo's has found an increasing demand on its services for child victims of controlling adults, and by March this year had 12 projects dedicated to the issue across the country. They are expanding as quickly as resources can be allocated. 'Where do these children come from? Most of them will have traumatic backgrounds, but they are from middle-class families as well as socially deprived. Just as the people who abuse these chil dren have diverse backgrounds,' said Palmer. Child prostitution and trafficking has expanded rapidly in the UK with the internet's advent. Children are filmed being sexually abused and the images put out on internet-pornography channels or the internet is used to sell children. The internet and the use of mobile phones have also helped take abuse, particularly of young boys, off the streets and into bedsits and grotty flats.Libby Fry runs one Barnardo's project in Islington, north London. Demand is so high that they have had to limit their work to just 13- and 14-year-old girls. At the moment the project is trying to help 65 children. 'We decided to focus this project on sexual exploitation because in our work with the homeless and other vulnerable children the issue was coming up more and more,' she said. 'Social services and the police were telling us it wasn't happening; we could clearly see it was. We are now deluged with referrals. 'The stories of these children are diverse. Trafficking is an issue and asylum seekers' children can be very vulnerable. We have one 12-year-old who would seem to have been brought into the country by people who are not her parents. 'It can be kids in care homes who are recruited by other children. It can be runaways or children groomed over the internet, or girls whose mothers or aunties are involved on the fringes of prostitution and they are then targeted. We know places in London where pimps are actively out looking for children. There is also the drug issue. The crack houses and clubs where drugs are widely available also seem to be places where child abusers gravitate to.' It has only been in the past two years that the Home Office has advised police that they should no longer treat child prostitutes as criminals but as victims. But still many children are sent not to agencies that might help them but to courts, or are cautioned and allowed to return to adults who control them. 'Not every police force has adopted this practice yet, and certainly while there is only an offence of "living off immoral earnings" for pimps and customers, going after the men behind this abuse is never a priority,' said Fry.