Last summer, a girl was walking back from Clapham Common along the Chase, an avenue of big Victorian houses in south London. She was walking alone at first, and then in the company of a small group of people who were jostling all over the pavement. "Kids mucking about," thought a bystander, until he saw there was blood on the ground. Some sort of struggle was taking place. The girl would not relinquish her bag. She was struck violently on the head. The bystander intervened and the gang ran off. In his panic to help her inside, he set off his own burglar alarm and there was a hellish scene of blood, sirens and outright hysteria, all in broad daylight. By evening, his testimony and that of several other witnesses had flown down the street, setting off age-old dreads and impulses.Residents of the Chase came together over the incident, which in its new and brazen threat to their welfare, seemed to call for some extra assertion of community. Neighbourhood Watch took off, as did the very un-London practice of getting to know enough of the neighbours so that strangers would be more easily detected. But the atmosphere remained subtly altered. It was a sad sign of the times, said some, taking refuge in cliche. Fear of crime is always much greater than the likelihood of falling victim to it, but in recent months the gap between the two appears to have narrowed. Crime figures show robbery to be up by as much as 10% in some city neighbourhoods and the sound of horror stories being swapped over dinner - ever a middle-class recreation - has grown deafening. Relentless media coverage in the form of street crime specials, out raged front pages and a daily seasoning of shootings, stabbings, muggings and the faddish new terror of car-jackings, have added to the sense that Britain's cities are under siege. Since the most fortified belt of society is also the most expert at amplifying its grievances, it is hard to tell how widespread and genuine the panic is. Here, then, is evidence from one well-heeled London street, chosen at random.The Chase is a wide, suburban avenue made up of a typical mix of valuable 19th-century homes and dilapidated rental properties. It serves as a pedestrian short cut between Clapham Common tube station and the estates on the Wandsworth Road. Most houses have burglar alarms and stickers provided by the police telling distributors of unsolicited mail to sod off. The first house I call at has a metal grille over its window. After ringing the bell, there is the unmistakable sound of shuffling behind the door and a needle of light as the spy hole opens. It is a Sunday morning. I am wearing a Puffa jacket, a hooded sweatshirt and what I hope is an unthreatening expression. The door does not open. At the next house, a man answers and tells me about last summer's seminal mugging incident. It happened outside his house and was witnessed by his wife. Since then, his car radio has been stolen and his house burgled. He is an Australian diplomat who, like everyone else in the street, would rather not be identified. People are superstitious when it comes to talking about crime in case they attract it. The diplomat's neighbour is the bystander who rescued the mugging victim. He is an art dealer and has lived in the road for 25 years. This year, he and his wife, Ellen, have had their car broken into and friends of theirs were mugged in the next street. "They weren't diddery-doddery old people," says Ellen indignantly. "They were a solid, middle-aged couple. A couple. Whoever heard of a couple getting mugged?" Since then, Ellen has changed her security routine. When arriving home late, she will sit in her car and peer at the house for a while, trying to make out suspicious movements. "People are much more nervous walking down the street now. You become aware of who is walking behind you. I used to look at those swaggering boys with their hoods up and think they were just harmless young lads. Now I start thinking how vulnerable I am in high heels, standing at the bus stop with my hand bag dangling. But I refuse, I absolutely refuse, to start strapping things to my body." Her neighbour, Amanda, had her car stolen this year, although it was later recovered by the police. This event is so unremarkable, so predictable, that she says it is hardly worth mentioning. "There's much more talk about the murder of that estate agent in Battersea," she says. Of recent high-profile crimes, this has caused the most disturbance in the Chase. "It happened right outside my husband's office. Everyone is pretty shaken about that." Over the past 18 months, Simon and Phyllida, a young couple two doors down, have had three cars stolen and been burgled once. Hoisting a baby on to her hip and with a toddler woven round her legs, Phyllida says: "We know who it is. It's the same group of kids who run down the street breaking off people's wing mirrors and kicking their doors." "Remember fireworks night," says Simon. His wife shudders. "They were letting off fireworks at the houses. Deliberately." "And trick-or-treat night," says Phyllida, recalling fresh horrors. "I was at home on my own. A bunch of kids came round asking for money and I said, 'What are you going to do for it?' And they said nothing - so I told them I wouldn't give them any. When I shut the door they started kicking it. I mean, these were 10- year-olds. But I was really frightened." "I don't want to go on about it, because it drives down the value of the property," says Simon. "But I would pay extra on my council tax to have more police on the streets." "Remember the girl who was mugged," says Phyllida. Clapham is in Lambeth, the London borough with the highest number of recorded street robberies by nearly 50%. Last year there were 4,691, of which 265 were solved - a rate of 5.6% which is the lowest in London. Borough-wide, fewer than one in 10 burglary suspects are charged. Yellow witness appeal signs have proliferated, providing handy aids to paranoia. It is one thing to read of a mugging in the local paper and quite another to pass a sign appealing for witnesses to a daylight attack at the end of your road. Still, down the street from Simon and Phyllida is a man vacuuming his car who, after racking his brains, admits to having had a crime-free year. "Nothing," he says, beaming. The man next door is equally fortunate. "Touch wood," he says, and climbs three steps from the sunken patio, crosses the drive and slaps his hand against his neighbour's wooden fence. "Shouldn't talk too soon." He gives me a dark look for tempting fate. It is a brief respite. At the next house, an elderly man has had his wallet stolen, twice, in the same manner. "Both times, I left it on the hall table and they poked some sort of implement through the letter box - a fishing rod or something - and hooked it out. The feeling is that crime around here has definitely increased." Two more houses, two more car thefts; and then a man who has twice been burgled and whose friend lived in the same road as the murdered Battersea estate agent. Car-jacking frightens him so much that he has taught his small children how to operate the car's central locking system, in case they should ever find themselves alone in the car and under siege. The theft of his next-door neighbour's scooter seems trivial by comparison. It is not, however, trivial to the civil servant several doors down. After being burgled three months ago, he has grown sensitive to new, malevolent currents in the street, the lurking presence of "shadow people" who, he believes, hang around waiting to swoop when the opportunity presents itself. After observing the briskness of trade outside Clapham tube station, he believes they are drug-motivated. In his porch is a sternly worded warning to pedlars, pollsters and uninvited guests and it takes some wheedling over the intercom to get him to come to the door. Giles eventually lets me in and introduces me to his Yorkshire terrier. "He has a good bark," he says. "It's good to have a dog. People are getting jittery. It can only get worse as long as the drug problem persists." And finally to Maria, the Neighbourhood Watch co-ordinator. Even she is protective of her surname. "It might be a tad paranoid," she says carefully. "But we're all so safety-conscious now. While the children are young, we ferry them to and fro in the car. But one day they'll be teenagers and want to take the bus. That's a worry. It boils down to the fact that we don't have enough police officers. Everyone is affected." Of the 25 houses I visited in the Chase, only two had had no experience of crime in the past year. At the corner of the street is an Australian girl washing her car. She squints into the sun and says cheerfully that a couple of her friends have had their cars broken into. Is she fearful about crime? "Ha!" She snorts. Gazing down at the neat hedges and cast iron gates, the family saloons and the gambolling labradors, she rolls her eyes incredulously. "Of course I'm not. Look at this place. I used to live somewhere far dodgier than this."