Three men were questioned by police yesterday over the racist murder of the black teenager Anthony Walker.Michael Barton, 17, and Paul Taylor, 20, were arrested as their easyJet flight from Amsterdam arrived at John Lennon airport in Liverpool at about 7pm on Wednesday. They were accompanied on the flight by members of their family and two plain-clothed officers from Merseyside police. Passengers were allowed off the plane before officers took away the handcuffed pair for questioning. They were arrested on suspicion of murder and put into a blue police van. They had refused to show their faces and hid beneath their tracksuit tops as family members bundled them through security at Amsterdam. It is understood that Mr Barton's mother, Rita, and Mr Taylor's father, Kevin, accompanied them on the flight. Arrangements were made to bring them back to the UK with Taylor's solicitor, Rob Lowe. Mr Barton, the brother of the Manchester City midfielder Joey Barton, and his cousin Mr Taylor, had been named by police this week as being wanted for questioning in connection with their investigation. Joey Barton made an appeal for his brother to contact the police. He described the murder as "senseless and horrific" and sent his sincere condolences to Anthony's family. He said the killing had "shocked the country". Merseyside police said they had arrested a 23-year-old man from Huyton yesterday as part of the investigation. He was being questioned at a police station. Anthony, a devout Christian who wanted to be a lawyer, and his 17-year-old cousin Marcus Binns had been walking Anthony's girlfriend, Louise, 17, to a bus stop in Huyton, on Friday night, when they were subjected to a torrent of racist abuse. They were so concerned, they walked on to another bus stop, but were followed to McGoldrick park in Huyton, where Anthony was attacked with an axe. Louise and Marcus ran for help, but when they returned, they found Anthony on the ground with the axe embedded in his head. The attack has shocked the community in Huyton, where a bank of flowers has been left at the entrance to the park in tribute to Anthony. A vigil in Liverpool city centre this week was attended by more than 800 people. Anthony's family have been praised for their dignity and forgiveness. His sister Dominique said she felt sorry for the killers and that the family had to forgive and to catch those responsible for her brother's death. Yesterday, it emerged that Taylor's mother was attacked in the street by two women on Tuesday after family members received threats from people living in Huyton. Three other men, aged 17, 18 and 26, who had been questioned by detectives this week, have been released on bail. Anthony's friend, Jamie Sullivan, said: "Anthony was almost part of our family. He was always coming to the house. I will miss his smile and a friend who was so easy to talk to." Police are appealing for anyone who was in the pool room at the Huyton Park pub on Friday night to come forward.