Scotland Yard's commissioner, Sir John Stevens, yesterday took charge of talks to resolve a row threatening to throw capacity to provide armed police protection for London into crisis.By last night, 125 of the Metropolitan police's 400-strong SO19 specialist firearms unit had agreed to down weapons in protest at the suspension of two officers involved in a fatal shooting five years ago. Others in the royal and diplomatic protection units, which guard Westminster, Downing Street and Buckingham Palace, are considering following suit, and police chiefs fear security could be affected if the dispute escalates. Inspector Neil Sharman and PC Kevin Fagan were suspended from duty on Friday after a coroner's court decided they unlawfully killed Harry Stanley, 46, when they shot him dead in 1999. They mistook the table leg he was carrying for a shotgun, but the jury rejected the pair's claims that they believed their lives were in imminent danger. Daniel Machover, the Stanley family's solicitor, said the inquest verdict was a judgment on the actions of the two officers, not on police firearms tactics in general. Mr Stanley's widow, Irene, urged other officers to go back to work, saying her husband's death had "nothing to do with them". But Glen Smyth, of the Metropolitan Police Federation, claimed the case threw all police firearms training and tactics into doubt and the federation was considering a legal challenge to the coroner's court finding. "Firearms officers have one of the most demanding and difficult jobs in policing. It is dangerous, requires a high degree of skill and can place them in situations where they have to take split-second decisions over life and death," said Mr Smyth. He said the decision to suspend the two policemen five years after the shooting was a "kneejerk reaction" and called for their immediate reinstatement. A source at SO19 said: "They [Sharman and Fagan] are bitterly disappointed at the way they have been treated and they feel unsupported." Scotland Yard insisted there was adequate armed cover for London. But Sir John conceded the situation was extremely serious, bearing in mind the terrorist threat faced by the capital. The commissioner said the inquest verdict could not be ignored, and therefore the two policemen seem likely to remain suspended. But he fully sympathised with the problems facing officers, and called for changes in the law to speed up the process for dealing with similar cases. He will meet the two men this morning to discuss claims that they were "abandoned" by the Met.