Terrorists, traffickers, and child abductors can only welcome Tory efforts to abolish the European arrest warrant (EAW) and decrease, rather than step up, EU justice and police co-operation.If she had been home secretary a decade ago, Theresa May's moves to abolish the warrant would have meant that one of the July 2005 terrorists, Hussain Osmain, could still be in Rome, protected by lawyers and legal trickery. Instead, he is now in prison after being returned to face justice – under the EAW. A withdrawal from the EAW, as a result of the Conservative obsession to limit Britain's partnership and co-operation in the EU, would be welcomed by all transnational criminals who flee British justice and rely on other countries' legal systems to delay the return of any fugitive to British justice.Other measures to promote justice and co-operation against criminals who pay no attention to European frontiers are also being thrown out of the window as May enters the cabinet "EU exit competition" – apparently to see which minister can parade his or her dislike of the EU the most.The following scenario looks likely: co-operation on sharing databases and research, and EU funding for crime-fighting initiatives, will all go out the window. Joint work to control immigration will be abolished. The Brits who currently head Europol and Eurojust – two useful co-ordinating bodies where Britain needs a voice – will now have to resign. Britain will now have to negotiate one by one with each EU member state on bilateral policies on crime fighting or immigration control.As Tory MEP Timothy Kirkhope points out, the rest of Europe will see the British decision as just another victory for Ukip, Tory MPs who want to quit the EU and offshore-owned press with its Europhobic pathologies.Instead, Britain should be in there arguing for improvement and reform. There are problems with the implementation of the EAW and it may need amending so is only covers more serious crimes with longer penalties than at present. But given the long delays in bringing some criminals to justice in the UK or the failure to secure rape convictions, Britain is in no position to boast that British judicial procedures are perfect.May could well argue that Britain can keep using the warrant. But that assumes the other 26 EU member states will allow Britain to cherrypick which bits of EU crime-fighting Tory ministers like. And in any case, the EAW has come under sustained fire from Tory MPs, headed by Dominic Raab, who say it allows British citizens to be extradited unfairly and costs Britain millions to administer.May's announcement is driven by dislike of Europe, more than a rational analysis of the balance of advantage to Britain in combating trafficking and other cross-border crime. It is unclear why other EU member states who have to accept the whole EU crime and justice package will be willing to allow Britain to pick and choose different parts of it.The European public prosecutor, which is proposed under this scheme, would prosecute European-level financial crime, counterfeiting and fraud but do so in relevant national courts. Opting out of this will please those fraudsters who have given the City a bad name, but it is hard to see why Britain should oppose European-level investigation and prosecution of financial crime.For comparison, Norway co-operates with the EAW – just as Norway implements more EU directives than Britain. Given that Tory Eurosceptics claim they want a Norwegian status for Britain in terms of detaching ourselves from the EU, they do not seem to realise that both Norway and Switzerland are in the Schengen area and abide by most EU rules.Before the EAW, Britain protected for 10 years Rachid Ramda, the Islamist terrorist who was the mastermind behind the 1995 Paris metro bombings which killed eight and wounded 80 in a pre-echo of 7/7 in London. Ramda was arrested in London on the basis of very clear evidence from the French police. But without an EAW he was able – with the help of lawyers and judges as well as Liberty and the Home Office – to stay in London for 10 years. Finally, Charles Clarke, who was home secretary after 7/7 changed attitudes, sent him back in 2005 to face justice and the victims of his killings. He is now serving life in a French prison.