The conviction of Harold Shipman for the murder of 15 of his patients confirms him as one of the the most prolific serial killers of the modern era.Only Dennis Nilsen is known to have killed as many in Britain, although the exact number of men he strangled and mutilated at his flat at Cranley Gardens in Muswell Hill, London - thought to be between 12 and 16 - is still a matter of conjecture. Shipman's case is different because detectives, who investigated 130 deaths, believe he killed at least 15 and more charges are expected. But Shipman, unlike most serial killers, did not kill with violence. His modus operandi, a swift injection of a lethal dose of morphine, distinguishes him from the brutality and bloodshed that usually marks out a murderer. The list of Britain's most prolific killers also contains the Yorkshire Ripper, Peter Sutcliffe, who was found guilty in 1981 of murdering 13 women, aged from 16 to 47. His murder spree started in October 1975 when he beat and stabbed a prostitute. He later claimed he wanted to rid the world of prostitutes and described the murders as "just cleaning up streets". Sutcliffe was captured five years later. More recently Fred West is thought to have killed 12 people at 25 Cromwell Street, Gloucester. West committed suicide in prison before standing trial but his wife, Rosemary, was convicted in 1995 of murdering 10 women and girls. The victims were tortured, raped and murdered and then buried at Cromwell Street. Detective Superintendent John Bennett, who led the investigation, said: "This was a terrible case. It is quite clear that Mrs West must be a psychopath. She and Frederick West were a perfect pair for each other." But there have been cases of even more prolific murderers in other parts of the world. If convicted by the Chinese courts, Hu Wanlin could be the most prolific killer yet known. He claimed he was a healer who possessed a mysterious force of qi, or vital energy. He is said to have set up hospitals in two Chinese provinces several years ago, but his treatments allegedly killed 146 patients. He is awaiting trial. Last March Anatoly Onoprienko was convicted by a Ukrainian court of murdering 52 people, 10 of them children. The former forestry student - nicknamed "the Terminator" by local newspapers - would burst into homes at random and kill entire families with his sawn-off hunting gun. Before his trial, he told reporters: "I have no regrets, no remorse and I would do it again if I could." A Russian cannibalistic killer, Andrei Chikatilo, admitted murdering 55 people in an 11-year period. At his trial, he blamed a deprived childhood and a lack of motherly love for his obsession. "I am a freak of nature, a mad beast," Chikatilo told the court. He was executed in 1994. In the US, Jeffrey Dahmer was jailed in 1992 for murdering 17 teenagers in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Two years after his conviction he was killed by a fellow jail inmate who used a mop handle to stab him in the eye. "You think you have seen it all, then something like this happens," said a police officer who was among the first to enter Dahmer's apartment. When they broke in police discovered that the killer kept severed heads at his home; two were found in the fridge. He had crammed the torsos of four men into a barrel and other body parts were strewn around the floor or stored in jars. Dahmer later told detectives: "I knew I was sick or evil or both." Bewildering body counts Hu Wanlin, a healer in China arrested last year, charged with killing 146 patients  Andrei Chikatilo, a Russian who admitted 55 murders. Executed six years ago  Anatoly Onoprienko, a Ukrainian convicted of killing 52, including 10 children  Jeffrey Dahmer, jailed in 1992 for murdering 17 teenagers in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Killed by fellow prisoner two years after conviction  Burke and Hare, the Edinburgh murderers, who killed 16, selling human organs to medical schools in the 1850s  Harold Shipman, convicted of 15 murders, but with 23 cases outstanding  Dennis Nilsen, believed to have killed up to 16 people in the early 80s.  Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, killed 13  Fred West, accused of 12 murders