During the Rachel Hudson trial, in which five members of the same family were convicted this week of torturing and murdering a young mother for no apparent reason, I realised something was different. While listening to the evidence of the most obscene abuse and violence I had heard since the Rosemary West trial, I knew that I had stopped asking myself "why?"If we need to ascribe a motive for Rachel's murder there is only the following: Ronald Hudson Sr had brutalised his wife Trudi and their children so severely over the years he had created monsters. Trudi and Charlene, the Hudsons' 18-year-old daughter, gave compelling evidence of Ronald Sr using sadistic violence to control and terrorise his family. One of his previous convictions was GBH against Trudi. Other distant family members who stayed at the household spoke of being so severely tortured by Ronald Sr that they ran five miles without shoes to escape. One was forced to eat excrement.Those who inflicted such terrible cruelty on Rachel enjoyed doing so, and the weaker she became, the more they despised her for it. Those brought up in the nightmare of the Hudson family home in Overdale Road, Nottingham, lived on a diet of violence until it became normal. How could such children possibly have a chance to turn out well-balanced individuals?What we do not see or hear about, we can pretend does not happen. Most people who knew the Hudsons were aware that the children were being abused. There could well have been sexual as well as physical and emotional abuse. Trudi alleged that Ronald Sr routinely anally raped her, as did an unnamed family acquaintance.Many neighbours in the 20 or more localities where the Hudsons lived during their marriage described them as "hell" to live near. One said: "Some of their kids were psychos ... The only time most of them would mix was when they were beating people up." And yet no one did anything to stop their reign of terror.In 1992 their dog was found locked in a coalhouse at their home, less than half its proper weight. It has long been recognised that in households where animals are abused children are often harmed too. Since the 1980s several of the children had come to the attention of the social services. When Rachel requested a welfare visit because of post-natal depression two months before she died, Ronald Sr and Trudi took the lead with the health visitor and "appeared aggressive". The visit was not followed up.The court was told how Trudi saw any babies born into the family, such as her son Shane's two children and Rachel's, as a meal ticket. She would try to take control of them simply to be able to cash the benefit books. She took out the violence she was enduring from her husband on her children. But perhaps if someone had helped Trudi escape from domestic violence at an early stage in her marriage, Rachel might still be alive.There is comfort in casting people who commit such horrific acts as subhuman. It is more difficult to admit they are a product of child abuse and neglect. With parenting like that meted out by Ronald Sr and Trudi, we are creating abusers. This was not just a family from hell; this was a family in hell. When sentencing, the judge described the Hudsons as a "primitive pack" lacking any trace of morality. That might be true, but sadism, violence and brutality are alive and well in today's society. And the truth is that people such as the Hudsons do not emerge from behind rocks, but from a society we all help to shape.· Julie Bindel is the founder of Justice for Women juliebindel@yahoo.co.uk