He was in his early 50s when it all began and is now 78. But Paul Lamplugh talks of his daughter Suzy as if he had seen her yesterday and says he misses her as much as ever. "The desire to find out what happened nev can never resolve to just not know. The fact that you don't have a body is particularly difficult, of course. It makes for a very different sort of grieving. When you have no specific clues to speak of, no idea, then in a way you always hope something will happen, you hope you will know one day. It could be any day."I absolutely agree it is living in limbo, I've used the phrase many times, and of course that will be the same for Claudia's father."Lamplugh has been watching the case of the Yorkshire missing chef, Claudia Lawrence, and has offered her father two pieces of simple advice: "Keep her in the public eye, go on raising her profile, don't let her be forgotten. And keep on at the police, work with them, push them. Fight. Somebody out there knows something, go in front of every TV camera you can and just think of that."As the six-month anniversary of his daughter's disappearance approaches, Peter Lawrence, 62, has indicated he intends to do just that. He last spoke to Claudia when she phoned on the evening of 18 March. It is thought she left her home in York at 5.30am the next morning to go to work. She never arrived. Her passport, credit cards and handbag were left behind at her home.Suzy Lamplugh was an estate agent who left her west London office on the morning of 28 July 1986 to show a flat to a client, Mr Kipper. Her car was found, unlocked and with her handbag inside, outside the flat.Twenty-three years separate the disappearances of 25-year-old Suzy and 35-year-old Claudia, both daughters of solicitors, both vivacious and attractive young women, going to work, close to their families, with lots of good friends and enjoying their lives to the full. For the families, the loss is compounded by police investigations struggling without any clues as to their whereabouts. They vanished without trace, changing the lives of the people who cared about them beyond recognition."I think what struck us and other people at first was that this was an ordinary girl going about her work, she wasn't doing anything like walking down a dark alley or across Twickenham Common at night," said Lamplugh. "There's the shock at first, the fears, and as time goes on you get out there. I remember getting all her friends round and everyone talked about the last things she had said, the last conversations, which was actually quite therapeutic and we passed everything on to the police. There's a lot of things being said about Claudia's friendships with men, and of course you find out things that ordinarily you wouldn't know, that it's normal for a parent not to know. We had to read Suzy's diary, and that was hard, thinking we shouldn't be doing this, I didn't really want to know about some things, but again it's like part of your job, part of your job to find her."I'm proud of the fact that Suzy was a lovely girl. I know it helped in keeping her in the public eye that she was very good-looking and from a nice middle-class home, the ordinary girl, although of course to us she wasn't ordinary, she was very special indeed. I am sure that is the case with Claudia."Suzy was declared dead, presumed murdered, in 1994; the police think that John Cannan, now in jail for a 1987 murder, probably killed Suzy. Her mother Diana, who now has dementia, established the Suzy Lamplugh Trust, which campaigns on personal safety issues. But eventually for the Lamplughs the searching had to stop."You can't just go on and on, there are other members of the family who need you. For us it was about 12 years after she'd gone missing, at a press conference. The chief constable was to announce that a man was the chief suspect. But Diana insisted they named John Cannan and they did. We had sat down and read the very long police report and we had stood up and thought, yes, it seemed beyond doubt Cannan was responsible. At that press conference we all as a family found our conclusion."Suzy lived a full life which was rather nice, with her work and with her social life, she threw herself into things. I remember Diana saying to her once: "Don't you think you might be overdoing it a bit, darling?' We were in the kitchen and Suzy said: 'Oh mum, life is for living!' Which is a lovely expression to be left with. I put bitterness out of my system, but of course if someone was to tell me how she died, in some horrible way that I don't like to think about, then I might feel different."I want you to know I miss her, always, now particularly because I know she would be so good with her mum and be such a wonderful help. We have three other children who are a wonderful support and are special, just as Suzy was special. I also know that many people lose children, whether it's a son in Afghanistan or kids getting killed on the road. I suppose it's the way we lost Suzy that has been especially difficult for us. She was just going about her normal day, at work, in daylight, she was anybody's daughter."Now the daughter is Claudia, daughter of Peter and Joan Lawrence, who divorced some years ago. Peter believes that his daughter is alive, "holed up somewhere with someone she knows or vaguely knows".For six months his life, too, has been in limbo. "I think there's a part of the brain that just goes numb," he has said. "Perhaps it's some sort of mechanism. We all feel that Claudia is around somewhere." Like the Lamplughs, he is relying heavily on the "fantastic" help from friends and family in the efforts to find out what happened. "I don't always have the strength. I may sit at home feeling particularly weak, but you have to keep going for Claudia's sake."A frequent texter, who kept in touch with both her parents, Claudia's disappearance is so out of character that Lawrence was able to convince North Yorkshire police immediately that she had not simply gone off.Geoff Newiss is a former Home Office senior researcher and a criminologist and now runs the charity Missing People, which has recently produced a report on the effects of missing people on families and friends left behind. Although more than 210,000 people are reported missing every year in the UK, three quarters turn up within 48 hours. Of the total number, it is estimated that only one in 7,400 results in a homicide. But Newiss thinks that, once those 75% who are found are factored out of the statistics, it actually leaves more people, most of them adult women, at risk of coming to harm than we might think."We are still not sure how high the figures are. The whole area is difficult because we have no national statistics collated. The fundamental problem with missing people is that they are not served well by data. But the longer someone is missing, clearly the higher the risk. The majority of people decide to go missing, but police are fairly good now at spotting quite early on where someone might have actually come to harm, which is reassuring for families of course."Everyone thinks that children are most at risk in relation to coming to harm, but actually adult women face five times the risk of becoming victims of homicide. But the impact on families of missing people, no matter why their loved one has disappeared, is just enormous, and there is not enough support out there for them. We are running our Living in Limbo campaign to highlight these issues."Peter Lawrence's best friend, Martin Dales, got in touch with Missing People for help in starting a poster campaign to trace Claudia."I couldn't believe it when we went down there, I was thinking this is such a rare and odd thing and there were so many photos of people in their office it was like wallpaper. I was really shocked," he told the Observer. "When Claudia went missing I thought it was odd, but I never thought for one minute that nearly six months on we'd be putting up posters and running the kind of campaign to find her that we are now."The first press conference was a shocking experience for Peter, really daunting when you have never had any experience of such things. Then you hear about people like Paul Lamplugh, of course, and you just start to realise what people are going through every day."Ordinary people that something extraordinary has happened to. Claudia is an ordinary York girl, not flashy, modest, and much loved. It's taken Peter and all of us, his friends, a little while in working out how to deal with this, but Peter is determined to expend as much energy as he can in keeping her name and her image in front of the public, it's what he has to do or he'd crack up. Someone out there knows something and nothing is as important as them coming forward."Peter Lawrence said: "It's hellishly difficult for me. But I have to do it."The searches go onSuzy Lamplugh, 25, disappeared on 28 July 1986. An estate agent, she had gone to show a flat to a mysterious Mr Kipper. Her car was found, unlocked and with her keys missing, outside the flat in Fulham, but no trace of her has ever been found. She was declared dead, presumed murdered, in 1994. Her family worked tirelessly to find Suzy. They now believe she was killed by John Cannan, currently in jail for another murder, although no charges have ever been brought.The trust set up in her name (suzylamplugh.org) works to raise awareness of the importance of personal safety.Claudia Lawrence, 35, was last heard of when she phoned both her parents on the evening of 18 March 2009.It is thought the chef may have vanished on her walk to work the next morning.Her passport, credit cards and handbag were left in her flat, but her chef's whites was gone. Police believe that she may have been abducted by someone she knew, but no trace of her has yet been found.Her friends and family have launched a poster campaign to try to find Claudia. A website (findclaudia.co.uk) has been launched to publicise her case.