Luke is nine years old, small for his age and delicate with a heart-shaped, pale face and shy smile. For all his apparent sweetness, however, Luke has an 80 per cent chance of becoming a violent criminal, destined to waste his adult years in prisons after a youth spent wreaking havoc on his community, tearing his family apart in the process. Luke is one of the first children to be targeted by a new scheme about to be extended across Britain. Scoring children aged from eight to 13 against a hit-list of risk factors, the Youth Inclusion and Support Panels (Yisps) believe they can pinpoint children likely to be heavily involved in crime by the time they reach adulthood, even if they have yet to commit a single offence. This bleak prediction is based in Luke's case on his fulfilling at least six categories on a nine-point checklist, including persistent antisocial behaviour, a disruptive attitude at school, being excluded from class and having a mother unable to curb his rudeness, aggression and violent tantrums. 'The scheme is not rocket science, nor is it ethically questionable; just ask a local school or police station if they can identify the children at most risk of becoming serious criminals and they will have no trouble,' said Bob Ashford, Head of Prevention for the Youth Justice Board. 'In the past, local agencies have worked in such a fragmented way that children who have not yet committed a crime have slipped through the net. But it has been proved beyond any doubt that if children aged from eight to 13 slip into crime, there is an appallingly high likelihood of them going on to become persistent or violent adult offenders.' The best way of preventing this, Ashford believes, is early intervention. With £70,000 funding from the Children's Panel, Yisps identify children with behaviours that could lead them to offend and involves a wide range of agencies from social services to sport clubs, to help divert them from the path. Three months ago, Luke and his family were identified as being at risk by Nottingham's Yisp, the first pilot project in Britain, set up two years before the rest of the 91 trial panels. 'I know that, without the support we've received in the last three months, Luke would have ended up in prison, having almost certainly hurt someone very badly in the process,' says Carole, Luke's mother. 'I've been trying to get social services to take him seriously since he was four, and have watched his behaviour get worse and more out of control. But they said they couldn't do anything until he committed a serious crime. My arguments for preventing Luke getting to that stage were ignored.' The impact of Luke's behaviour on the rest of his family has been harsh: his 12-year-old brother, Johnathan, found living with Luke so disturbing that he attempted suicide last year, while the local authority, fed up with complaints from the family's neighbours, were on the verge of evicting them. 'I felt like I was clinging on by my fingertips to my family because, without the help I needed, I could see it all rushing towards some terrible end,' Carole said. Yisps are still so new that only Nottingham has completed any in-depth research. Their survey, however, found such an impressive level of success that, added to favourable reports from other pilot projects, 286 more panels are to be set up later this year. According to their research, 79 per cent of children referred to Nottingham's panel had managed to avoid crime and anti-social activities when reviewed three months after their case had been closed. Of the 14 children on permanent or fixed-term school exclusion when they were referred to the panel, just two remained on fixed-term exclusions and none was permanently excluded. Evidence that Nottingham's panel is contributing towards a wider reduction in offending and offences committed by children is also growing, with the number of young offenders falling from 1,872 in 2000 to 1,459 in 2002, the latest figures available. 'Luke hasn't been excluded from school since the scheme began, which has meant I have been able to start working again,' Carole added. However, there are fears that the panels stigmatise children and families, and questions over the ethics of bringing children who have not committed a crime into the criminal justice system. 'It's a very blinkered, superficial approach,' said Sharon Moore, from the Children's Society. 'By labelling these children as future criminals, you're putting them into a box that could become predictive. I fear the long-term results.'