Police have launched a double murder investigation after the severely injured bodies of two young brothers were found in a car near a beauty spot on the outskirts of Glasgow. The vehicle was found by passersby late on Saturday afternoon in a secluded car park in a quiet country lane leading from the village of Lennoxtown to Campsie Glen, an area of hills popular with walkers and cyclists. Paul Ross, six, and Jay Ross, two, from Glasgow, are suspected of having suffered violent deaths. A man, understood to be their father, was taken to hospital with very severe burns. Paramedics were unable to revive either child. Police are pursuing the theory that both boys were killed, and that the man, who is understood to be separated from their mother and who had weekend visiting rights to the children, allegedly tried to set the car on fire and kill himself. He was in Glasgow royal infirmary under police guard, and was believed to be in a critical condition. Police have not confirmed his relationship to the boys. Initial reports that the boys had been killed by carbon monoxide from a pipe connected to the car's exhaust were discounted by police. Detectives are not looking for anyone else in connection with the deaths. In a statement, they said: "Following post-mortem examinations, the deaths are now being treated as murder ... Police are continuing to follow a positive line of inquiry."Strathclyde police added last night that they had appointed a family liaison officer to support the boys' mother. Witnesses said the extent of the tragedy became clear after they saw fire engines, police and ambulances heading towards the area and a helicopter overhead. Witnesses said one ambulance returned down the B822 Crow Road with its lights flashing, a second following. Ronnie Jannaway, club steward at Campsie golf club, said: "The only indication was when the police cars started to go past and we thought maybe it was a road accident; it's quite a bad road for accidents. It wasn't until later on that people heard the full story, and everyone was quite shocked about it." He said 20 members arrived at 7.30am yesterday but were prevented from going on to the course by police. David Whitton, the constituency MSP for Strathkelvin and Bearsden, said: "It's obviously a terrible thing to have happened. Clearly there will have to be an investigation to find out why this happened. It's a quiet back road up towards the Campsie hills and there are various places where you can park and no one would pay much attention to the car."The car was removed from the car park on Saturday night and yesterday police continued to search the scene, using sniffer dogs. The secluded road remained closed during the search, but was reopened yesterday afternoon.