'Prostitutes don't have names," says Dianne Parry. "When my daughter got involved in selling sex she was no longer Hanane, she became just another prostitute. She never deserved that, nor do any of the other girls doing that work."Hanane, who was addicted to heroin and sold sex on the streets of Liverpool to support her drug habit, had her life cut tragically short at the age of 19 by Mark Corner in July 2003. He was detained at Ashworth hospital indefinitely under the Mental Health Act for murdering and dismembering her and another woman, Pauline Stephen, after paying for sex with them on separate occasions. The cause of Hanane's death could not be determined because her body was too badly mutilated.Three years after Hanane's death, Dianne finds it no easier to deal with than the day Roy and Dave, two grim-faced police officers, broke the news to her that body parts found in bin bags were bits of her daughter. "Even now I can't stop thinking: 'What were her last thoughts? Was she crying for me? Was she hoping that I'd protect her?' In times of trouble children want their mums but I wasn't there for Hanane." The attitude of some that getting herself murdered was an occupational hazard of prostitution enrages Dianne. Posthumously restoring her daughter's reputation as a human being with the same rights as everyone else has become Dianne's mission.Hanane, which means "kindness" in Arabic, lived up to her name. She was a quiet, gentle and happy girl and grew up in an immaculate semi in Broughton, near Chester, where Dianne still lives with her second husband and their three younger children. Hanane's father is Libyan and in the predominantly white area where the family lived, Hanane's brown skin stood out. Her father and Dianne split up when she was small and he went back to Libya. Hanane was happy at primary school but when she started secondary school everything changed."I thought she was miserable because a few girls were being bitchy to her. What I didn't know until much later was that she was constantly subjected to racist abuse from one particular group at the school. They threw stones at her, called her 'Paki' and chanted 'Trigger, trigger, shoot the nigger.' She was a tiny girl, less than 5ft tall and very slim. She begged me not to make her go to school but I always insisted that she went."One of the worst things for me now as a white mother is knowing that I put Hanane on this earth. She didn't ask to be born and she suffered so much because of her skin colour."At the age of 16, Hanane decided to move into a hostel for single people where she could be more independent."We loved each other to bits but there were clashes at home because I insisted on certain rules about what time she should be home in the evenings and she always wanted to stay out later. I thought it was just a normal teenage thing."Soon after Hanane moved to the hostel she was introduced to heroin."Hanane always told me everything. She said that taking heroin made her feel better about everything. At last she no longer cared about her colour or anything else. I was very unhappy about what she was doing but I was convinced it was just a phase which she'd come out of."She tried to shoplift a couple of times to fund her drug habit but she was absolutely hopeless at it and she got caught," Dianne laughs, in a way that could tip over into tears at any moment. So Hanane turned to prostitution, working on the streets of Liverpool. She stayed in regular touch with Dianne by phone but visited home less."You can't have a relationship with heroin and your family at the same time," says Dianne. "But she was always phoning me and saying: 'Hi Mum, I'm just calling to let you know I'm all right because I know you worry.' The last time she called me was two weeks before she died, on her friend's mobile phone."Although Dianne was distraught about the direction Hanane's life had taken, her conviction that this was something temporary helped her cope."Hanane was the most naive person you could meet. I was naive too. I thought she would be like Julia Roberts in Pretty Woman and live happily ever after. I never thought she'd end up chopped into pieces in a bin bag."I believed she would suddenly wake up one morning, see sense and come back home to us. I'd always assumed that prostitutes and drug addicts had made a choice to be part of that world but now I know it's not as simple as that. Hanane used drugs to escape from the misery of being bullied at school. I didn't tell any friends or neighbours that she was using drugs or that she was involved in prostitution, not because I was ashamed of what she was doing but because I always assumed she'd be coming back home soon and that it would be easier for her to get on with her life post-drugs and prostitution if people weren't judging her on the basis of those things."Hanane had told Dianne that sometimes people who lived near her in Rhyll, where she worked briefly after she left home, shouted out 'smackhead' in the street to her."First she got called Paki, then smackhead. I couldn't bear the thought of people calling her 'slag' as well so I kept it a secret from everyone what she was doing."Although Dianne didn't want Hanane to be involved in sex work she said she was proud of the reasons why she chose prostitution rather than theft to pay for her drugs."Hanane never once harmed anybody in her life. That's why she decided to sell herself to buy her drugs rather than mugging old people."When the police officers broke the news to Dianne she knew that she had just an hour to tell her other three children - a girl and two boys, now aged 10, 14 and 15 respectively - what had happened before Hanane's name was released to the media."I turned to Roy, one of the police officers, and said: 'How do I tell them?' He shook his head. 'I don't know, Dianne,' he said. In the end I just had to be straight with them about what had happened. I took them into the garden one by one and broke the news. They knew Hanane used heroin but they didn't know she was a prostitute so I had to tell them that, too. At a stroke I felt as if I'd destroyed their childhoods. In those few minutes they all had to grow up much too quickly.The children, she says, have coped quietly with Hanane's murder. The youngest one went to see a counsellor, the older two chose not to."I'll be tortured for the rest of my life but I'm determined not to let Mark Corner destroy their lives too. When my kids come home from school I'm just an ordinary, happy mum to them, even though I feel anything but that inside." Support from Roy and Dave, the police officers, has helped her restore this veneer of normality to family life, she says.While Dianne makes sure that family life continues as far as possible, she says Hanane's murder has led to a loss of innocence in the younger children. "I never warned Hanane about the dangers of drugs and prostitution when she was growing up because I wanted to protect her from that sort of thing," says Dianne. "But I'm determined not to be overprotective with the others. I want them to be prepared for what's out there in the big, bad world."As the family tried to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives in the months that followed, Dianne found out that she was going to get £5,000 compensation from the Criminal Injuries Compensation Authority."I didn't want money because even if they paid me the whole earth it couldn't bring Hanane back."But to her horror she discovered that she was only going to receive half of what other parents would receive if their daughter had been murdered - because Hanane was a prostitute her life was valued at around 50% of a non-prostitute.In an internal memo on the subject, a Home Office official wrote: "I do know that the rules of the scheme require CICA to consider making a reduction to the award on the basis of the character of the victim. Criminal convictions can be taken into account in this process. I can understand entirely that this can appear insulting and to have no regard for Hanane and other young women involved in prostitution."For Dianne it was the last straw. She vowed to campaign against such discrimination and has lobbied every government minister she can think of to achieve equality in death for those like Hanane who didn't have it in life. She is also calling on them to establish tolerance zones where street-based sex workers can work more safely."The recent Home Office review of prostitution was wrong to reject them," she says.As a result of the deaths of Hanane and other prostitutes, and the debate about tolerance zones, a team of writers working with Dianne scripted the play Unprotected, which was shown at the Liverpool Everyman Theatre recently. It will be performed at the Edinburgh Festival this month. Dianne watched the play five or six times and said that eavesdropping on the audience response was therapeutic for her."People have all sorts of misconceptions about girls who use drugs and get involved in prostitution. I just wanted them to know the truth. One lady said to me that she walked past these girls every day and now she'd seen the play she understood what they were going through - that made me happy. People need to see that these girls are somebody's daughter. They're human beings just like everyone else."On stage there's a picture of Hanane taken on a school trip. The actors say her name many times throughout the play."People went in thinking 'prostitute' and came out thinking 'Hanane'. I know she's dead now but I'm so pleased for her that at last she's not just a prostitute. She's got her name back."· Unprotected, the play about Hanane and other Liverpool prostitutes, is at the Traverse Theatre in Edinburgh as part of the Festival Fringe from Aug 3-20. To book or for further details visit edfringe.com or call 0131-228 1404