The home secretary, David Blunkett, yesterday conceded that he would in future "normally accept" recommendations from the parole board for the release of murderers serving life sentences.His announcement, which could affect about 1,300 prisoners now serving mandatory life sentences, follows a ruling by the European court of human rights which stripped the home secretary of a final veto over release. The decision does not cover the 23 inmates, including Myra Hindley, serving "whole life tariffs" and already told they will never be freed. The arrangements open the way for 1,300 murderers, who have served longer than the minimum term laid down for deterrence and retribution, to have their cases reviewed by the parole board. Among the first to get a hearing, which will now be conducted in person rather than just on paper, is likely to be Harry Roberts, serving life for murdering three police officers in the 1960s, and Winston Silcott, serving life for the murder of the boxer Anthony Smith. The home secretary is known to have used his veto over the parole board only once in the past four years, when Jack Straw, Mr Blunkett's predecessor, rejected the recommendation that Satpal Ram, who had served 15 years for murdering a man in a Birmingham restaurant, be freed on life licence. Mr Ram was released in June when Mr Blunkett decided not to pursue the case after the European court ruling published in May. The prisons minister, Hilary Benn, in a Commons written answer, said the responsibility for a final decision could not be transferred to the parole board without primary legislation. As an interim measure all mandatory life prisoners whose next parole board review starts after January will be able to request an oral hearing with legal representation. They will normally get full disclosure of material relevant to their release and be able to cross-examine witnesses. The home secretary will also be able to ask for oral hearings where further examination of evidence is needed. At the end of this review, if the parole board favours release, "the home secretary will normally accept the recommendation", Mr Benn said. In May, a Strasbourg judgment said the human rights of Dennis Stafford, a convicted murderer, had been breached when the former home secretary, Michael Howard, kept him in jail longer than the parole board advised. He was awarded damages and costs of £28,000.