Psychiatrists who interviewed Tony Martin at least agreed on one thing: he was one of the most awkward clients they had ever been faced with.He had little time or respect for the medical profession and when probed about his history would constantly veer off the subject, preferring to talk about farming or trees. But during six hours of interviews at Gartree prison in Leicestershire, psychiatrist Philip Joseph elicited details of Martin's early life which his appeal team claimed cast light on why he had turned into the eccentric and fearful character who opened fire on the burglars. For a start, Martin told Dr Joseph he had been sexually abused as a child by a distant relative when he visited the family home. He recalled tucking his sheets in tightly around him so that the abuser could not get to him. In later life he hated sleeping in his bed, preferring to lie on the top fully clothed and with his boots on. Martin also told Dr Joseph he could not stand physical contact and after he had been in the company of a woman, felt he had molested her. He hated being left with children because he believed others would think he was abusing them. He once bought a teddy bear for a child but then could not bring himself to hand it over because he feared he would be regarded as a "pervert". From that time he would buy himself a bear every Christmas; he had one with him in the cells of Norwich crown court during his trial. Dr Joseph said he believed Martin's home, Bleak House, was his haven. Dr Joseph's theory was that - like Miss Havisham in Great Expectations - Martin liked his home to be untouched by the world. By the time of the break-in, Dr Joseph concluded, he had been suffering from a "paranoid personality disorder" for many years. He also had a "depressive illness". This combination could have made him react more violently than the average person to a burglary. Martin's conversations with Dr Joseph also made the psychiatrist think that the farmer thought he might be "violated" by the burglars, a fear relating back to his childhood abuse. Psychiatrist James MacKeith, who was called by the crown, did not accept that he had a personality disorder, nor that he was depressed at the time of the burglary. A psychiatrist for the defence at the first trial found no evidence that he had a personality disorder. 