Home Office minister John Denham announced today that the power to impose antisocial behaviour orders on nuisance neighbours is to be extended to housing associations.Antisocial behaviour orders were introduced in the Crime and Disorder Act 1998 to clamp down on people, mainly youths, who persistently harass others with abusive and disruptive behaviour.At the moment only local authorities or the police have the power to seek an order from the courts. Mr Denham told a Welsh assembly crime reduction unit conference in Cardiff that he wanted to extend the power to housing associations and other public organisations to increase the take-up of the initiative. The move comes after ministers were disappointed that in the first two years of the initiative only 214 orders were issued (see table in links below). Mr Denham said: "Antisocial behaviour orders are a powerful weapon in the armoury of the police and local authorities to tackle behaviour that can blight whole communities.""I am looking at how their benefits might be extended. For instance, registered social landlords or the British transport police might be allowed to take advantage of them as part of a coordinated drive against antisocial behaviour." He added: "I hope many more community safety professionals gain the confidence to make full use of the powers of antisocial behaviour orders."Mr Denham also told delegates that while looking at the future of the antisocial behaviour orders, he wants to discuss creating a new type of order that could complement it, which would be available to the courts. Sergeant Paul Firth, a community safety officer with North Wales police, said: "In hindsight, it was ridiculous to leave housing associations out as housing associations cover such large stretches of the population now." Since the introduction of the orders take-up has been patchy as well as slow. For example, in Essex there were no antisocial behaviour orders in the first two years, but there were 10 in Norfolk (see table in links below).Mr Denham said: "If there are places that are not using them because they are not sure about them then I would encourage them to get in touch with parts of the country that have made use of them." The homelessness charity Shelter voiced concerned about the plans. Chief solicitor Russell Campbell said: "There are plenty of powers that landlords have available for dealing with antisocial behaviour. "Local authorities are better able to consider all the people in a district and the strategic view. Housing associations don't have that view, they are just concerned with housing management. Extending their availability does seem inappropriate."