Early on Sunday morning, police arrested six men in north London under the Terrorism Act.Late on Tuesday, news of the arrests was released to the media. Naturally, it made instant headlines, with comments from a range of Downing Street, Westminster and "secret" sources showing how much this is seen as a special category of alleged crime. Two days later, what have we learned? We all know a lot more about ricin than we did. Perhaps we know a little more about how a range of agencies are cooperating to - we hope - keep us safer from terrorist threats. But are we in danger of "knowing" a little too much about the alleged crime and those said to be involved in it, and perhaps not quite enough about where that information has come from and why?At first glance, it might seem odd for Liberty - committed as it unquestionably is to free speech - to be questioning this. But there is a real problem developing with the way in which high-profile arrests are being reported in the media, and a real risk that the fairness of criminal trials is being undermined. This issue is not restricted to "terror" cases, but these cases raise it most starkly. Those arrested under the Terrorism Act are now in real danger of losing their right to a fair trial - they have certainly already lost their reputation and, in many cases, their lives have been destroyed as a result. A number of significant prejudicial details of the contacts and lives of terrorist suspects are being revealed without any real check on how true these allegations are or whether they could prejudice the trial. The police, MI5 and the government seem to be happy to promote this media hype. In some cases, the spin from the authorities is very damaging. But more important are the links made by the media, sometimes with unattributable official guidance, which seem to be designed to create the impression that these people are very dangerous and very guilty. Perhaps the most glaring case was the arrest late last year of several people under the Terrorism Act, news of which was announced a week later on the same day that reports of a gas attack threat to the London Underground were circulated. Not surprisingly, many journalists connected the two. In reality, there was no such connection, but many of us will inevitably remember the two stories as one. All this makes it much more difficult for juries in trials to concentrate on the evidence (or the lack of it). Those potential jurors reading the media are justified in concluding that these suspects are guilty. More worrying for our supposed constitutional protections is that, all too often, the stories are linked too neatly with the government's media agenda on fighting terrorism. The many instances in which charges are dropped almost never attract the same attention, even when people are released without charge just days after high-profile arrests. There is a real danger that those caught up in the net of our draconian terrorist legislation are now all presumed guilty. Are our memories so short that we have forgotten the long list of Irish people wrongly convicted and imprisoned as a result of moral panic in the 70s and 80s? The authorities and the media - and by extension most of the public - were almost certain in those days that the Birmingham six, the Guildford four and many others were guilty. People spent very long periods in prison having to prove their innocence before they could be released. We surely do not want to reproduce such huge injustices. The guardian of the rights of suspects on arrest in these circumstances is the attorney general, who has to act in the interests of both the public and the government at different times on the same day. However hard he may try, is it realistic to expect a member of the government, in these circumstances, to be able to take on such considerable forces? Maybe suspects need a new institutional champion.· John Wadham is director of Liberty