Jayne Zito, whose husband was stabbed to death by a paranoid schizophrenic almost 17 years ago, is to close the charity she founded in his memory. The horrific killing transformed her into one of Britain's best-known mental health campaigners, but now the 45-year-old says her work is done.Dissolving a charity as well established as the Zito Trust is rare; to claim success in such a fraught field of social reform is highly unusual. The decision to lay aside her personal crusade has clearly been agonising.Zito was catapulted into public life by a sequence of events that culminated in a notorious homicide on the London Underground on 17 December 1992. Her husband, Jonathan Zito, 27, had been travelling with his brother. They had stopped to change trains at Finsbury Park station when a shabbily dressed man behaving in an erratic manner shuffled up behind them.Christopher Clunis, then 29, had been diagnosed as a schizophrenic six years earlier. Discharged from several mental hospitals, he had not been taking his medication. In the days before, Clunis had twice attacked people with a screwdriver. That afternoon, without warning, he wrenched Zito around and thrust a knife three times into his face. A fatal wound above the right eye penetrated his brain. Jayne had just picked up their wedding photographs when the police tracked her down to relay the news. They had been married for three months. In the years since, she has developed the charity she co-founded into an influential lobbying organisation aimed at supporting victims and improving the delivery of community care services to the severely mentally ill. She has been awarded the OBE for her campaigning.The Zito Trust's surprise decision to wind itself up coincides with preparations to transfer Clunis, now 45, from Rampton high-security hospital to a medium-secure unit - a possible harbinger of his eventual freedom.According to the Ministry of Justice: "This move does not mean the patient will be released into the community. The agreement to move to an alternate secure unit is given only after thorough risk assessment, and subject to comprehensive safeguards."Zito, who now has two young boys, accepts that Clunis's eventual release is inevitable. She has always said she views both Clunis and her husband as victims of a dysfunctional care system. Asked about the charity, she said: "It has been an important part of my life for 15 years and I am saddened to see it close. I am very proud of our achievements in making people aware of the serious problems faced by all those concerned with community care services for the severely mentally ill and in bringing about wide-ranging reforms."She has recently taken up a part-time position with Devon and Cornwall Police Authority as a non-executive member.Michael Howlett, the other co-founder and mental health director of the Zito Trust, explained: "Some people say we are victims of our success. We set out several objectives when we were founded and the final one was the implementation of the Mental Health Act."That act, passed in 2007, closed what was seen as a "much used and abused loophole" in previous regulations. The trust lobbied to ensure that patients previously deemed to have "untreatable personality disorders" came under the legislation and did not escape mental health controls. Unlike other mental health charities, the Zito Trust also advocated that mental health patients with a history of violence should be subject to compulsory drug regimes. The introduction of community treatment orders under the new act satisfied this demand. "After the legislation, things went pretty quiet at the trust and, rather than trying to find a reason to exist, we decided to call it a day," Howlett added. "It's rare. Once a charity is established, members often find reasons for continuing."Raising finance has always been difficult, and it's worse in a recession. We have been in existence for 15 years and have been focusing on the victims more than anything else. Jayne recognises that it's time to move on." Since Zito was killed, there have been 400 official homicide inquiry reports, documenting deaths in the community associated with mental health patients.