Detectives hunting the killer who repeatedly struck student Marsha McDonnell about the head were yesterday waiting for medical reports on another young woman who suffered head injuries nearby a month before.Police want to see if there is any link between the two incidents, which happened within a couple of miles of each other in south-west London. It was originally thought the first victim had slipped on ice while walking home on January 8 and her injuries were treated as accidental. But after the publicity following the murder of 19-year-old Miss McDonnell who died on Wednesday, the woman came forward. Detectives believe that by today they will know if there is a connection that would could offer them a clue. Police say the investigation has so far produced few leads. Police still say Miss McDonnell appears to have been the victim of a random attack. She was struck around the head three times early on Tuesday morning just 100 yards from her home in Hampton. Miss McDonnell, who was on a gap year from her studies, was attacked during the five minute walk home from a bus stop after an evening out with friends. Detective Chief Superintendent David Cook said the teenager in the earlier incident could not remember what had happened to her. "One minute she was walking along, the next she was in hospital with head injuries. We are looking at the nature of the injuries." Police still want to trace passengers on the bus that brought Miss McDonnell home. Over the weekend her family made emotional appeals for information leading to her killer. Marsha's uncle, Shane McDonnell, said: "I would ask anyone with even the slightest bit of information, if you notice any character changes in any member of your family or a friend, please contact police." After a remembrance service, Keith Rowbottom, minister of the Hampton Methodist church, said: "The mood was a sombre one. Many people are shocked that this could happen within their community and are distressed." Police say they have received 200 calls to their incident room following extensive media coverage of the case.