Horace Silver has spent most of his life dicing with death. As a senior member of one of Britain's most successful criminal gangs, he has made tens of millions of pounds from drug trafficking, armed robbery, kidnapping and murder over the past 20 years.He has evaded repeated police sting operations, served only a few months in prison and survived at least two attempts on his life. But this week the release of his brutal and uncompromising debut novel is set to put him in the firing line like never before. Judas Pig is the gripping tale of a career criminal who reaches the top of his profession before the ghosts of his past catch up and threaten to destroy him. What sets the book apart is that, while essentially a work of fiction, the key elements of the story are true. With all the main characters easily identifiable in the underworld, the book is set to reveal for the first time who was responsible for at least five of London's unsolved gangland murders. Silver has now retired from crime but the other members of his gang remain active. Like all the most successful criminals, they have avoided becoming household names and, like Silver, have never been convicted of any major crime. The book, which reveals the inner workings of the gangs, details the rip-offs, double crosses and many killings they have been involved in and is set to rip London's gangland apart. 'I haven't come to terms with some of the things I have done. I don't think I ever will,' he says. 'At the time you can shut yourself off from it, and the drugs - I used a lot of cocaine - help deaden the pain. But I guess I wasn't much good as a gangster, because in the end I wasn't strong enough to cope with the reality of what I was involved in. 'Everything in the book actually happened. Sometimes I've changed a few dates or names because otherwise I'd be leading myself down the path to prison, but everything in the book is real.' Silver chose to write the book as a novel, changing some names but keeping others the same, to distance himself from the current fashion for celebrity gangster autobiographies. 'Any of these gangsters who have written books about their lives, they're failures. They've been caught and they've done lots of porridge and the stories they tell are no more relevant than Dick Turpin, because it all happened such a long time ago. Anyone who has made their money, they want to keep quiet. Look at... [he mentions the names of three prominent London criminals]. They haven't said a word and they never will.' The central figure in the book, Silver's former partner in crime, is known simply as 'Danny'. In real life Danny is well known to police. He has stood in the dock on at least five occasions, three times for attempted murder and twice for murder. Each time he has walked free, usually after witnesses vanished, died or declared themselves to be suffering from amnesia. One of the unsolved murders detailed in the book is that of Barry Dalton, whose body was found in his car on the outskirts of London's Alexandra Palace in September 1992. He had been shot in the head at point-blank range. At the time of his death, Dalton, married with five children, was described as the manager of a minicab firm but was in fact running protection rackets across the capital. A former bare-knuckle prizefighter with connections to the IRA's southern command, Dalton had fallen out with the legendary Lenny 'The Guvnor' McLean. Dalton took his revenge by turning up at McLean's flat with a shotgun. 'McLean had just got out of the shower,' says Silver, 'and answered the door with a towel wrapped around him. He saw the gun and was trying to get away when he was shot in the arse. If Dalton had wanted to kill him, he would have. He was just mugging him off.' The book explains how Dalton fell out with Danny's gang after trying to muscle in on some of their business interests. The killing was carried out by a hired hitman named Del Croxton. He had recently been released from prison after serving 16 years for armed robbery. He was recruited because, as Silver puts it, 'it's always handy to have a couple of psychos around in case you have stuff that needs doing.' A few months later Croxton was arrested after carrying out a second killing. Once inside he started to crack up. His partner had recently given birth to his first child and he feared he would never leave prison. His fragile state was worsened by his addiction to heroin. Someone in the gang arranged for Croxton to be supplied with heroin while in prison, but the drugs were far more potent than anything he had previously used. He overdosed in his cell and died with the needle still stuck in his vein. Silver finally left the gang after falling out with Danny. Part of his reason for writing the book is to seek revenge on the man he once considered his friend but who later tried to have him killed. 'All gangsters hide behind a myth of themselves that they put forward, not only to the straight world but to the criminal world as well. I'm exposing Danny for what he really is.' Now working on a second book, Silver is finding the transition from gangster to author difficult, but only because so many people confuse the reality with what they see in gangster films. 'The public have a very strong image of what gangsters are like, and it's tied up with the likes of Lenny McLean or Dave Courtney, but that's a long way from the truth. I did an interview with a journalist from one of the lads' mags and he asked me if I had any funny stories. I didn't know what to say. To me, the time I put a nonce case in a coma was fucking hilarious. I fell about laughing afterwards. We used to laugh when we tortured people, too. I don't think he understood. I think he wanted a tale about the time we went out to rob a bank, pulled our guns out and our trousers fell down around our ankles. 'The humour is there, but it's dark. And that's how it should be. These people go around pretending to be some kind of Robin Hood, but the truth is that they're scumbags, and I should know because I used to be a scumbag too.' · 'Judas Pig' by Horace Silver is published by The Do Not Press, £7.99