A schoolboy smiled as he handed a flick knife covered in blood to a teacher moments after stabbing another pupil through the heart, a court heard yesterday.The 16-year-old, who cannot be named for legal reasons but denies murder, was described as "zombified" by his deputy headteacher, who said she had been shaking like a leaf and was unable to speak when she realised one of her pupils was almost certainly bleeding to death outside a classroom.At the trial, entering its second week, two teachers recalled the eerily calm confrontation that followed the stabbing of 14-year-old Luke Walmsley at Birkbeck sec ondary school in North Somercotes in Lincolnshire. The jury at Nottingham crown court has already heard from other pupils how the boy wordlessly buried his knife to the hilt in Luke's chest after brooding over alleged insults from the younger but more popular and successful boy.Carol Mortimer, a science teacher at Birkbeck, said she initially thought the pupils were quarrelling over a snatched bag when a scuffle broke out between lessons on January 4 last year. She intervened and saw that the 16-year-old was trying to hide something behind his back."I said, 'What have you got there?' or words to that effect more than once as it took a while to persuade him to show me what was there. He brought his right hand out and on his hand was a blade, covered in blood. His hand had blood on it as well. I took it off him. He was very calm. There was what I would describe as a slight smile across his face."Challenged by Sasha Wass QC, defending, who suggested that the teenager had shown no emotion, Ms Mortimer said: "He definitely had a smile, only a slight smile, but he had a smile on his face as he brought the knife out from behind him."Birkbeck's deputy headteacher, Jane Filer, said in a statement read to the court that she had suffered uncontrollable shakes when the 16-year-old was brought to the head's office. "Due to the magnitude of the situation, I couldn't at first speak to [the defendant]. He appeared zombified. He appeared fazed by what he had done and the magnitude of the situation."She eventually managed to tell the boy: "Look at me, I am shaking like a leaf. I think he might be dead. I think you have killed him." She then asked him if he had deliberately killed Luke and he replied "no".The court heard that another teacher and a laboratory technician had carried out mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and chest compression on Luke until an ambulance arrived. The boy was airlifted to the Diana Princess of Wales hospital in Grimsby, but doctors were unable to save him. David Allison, an art teacher at Birkbeck, had given Luke first aid. He said: "My initial thought was that there had been a scuffle. I looked at Luke's face. At this time I realised the incident was serious. Luke was struggling to breathe and very pale. The ambulance seemed to take quite a while to arrive."The trial, which is expected to last another fortnight, has heard that the accused repeatedly threatened to stab Luke after rumours that the younger boy was mocking him among girls and other friends.Yvonne Coen QC, prosecuting, said the boy's credibility had been at stake, amid suggestions that he was "all talk and no action".The trial continues today.