Detectives were last night waiting to question a man in connection with the deaths of a mother and her two young children who were found dead in their home on Christmas Eve.The bodies of Lisa Higgins, 25, and her daughters Demmy, three, and Keighley, six, were discovered by a police officer who was making a routine next-of-kin call to the house in Willenhall, near Wolverhampton, following a serious car crash involving a 27-year-old man. The motorist, named locally as Spencer Smith, was found in a black Golf GTi that had smashed into a tree on the A41 in Shropshire. He was later arrested in connection with the discovery of the bodies but was not expected to be questioned until he had recovered sufficiently from his injuries. Neighbours said Mr Smith and Ms Higgins were partners and had moved into the house three years ago. However, West Midlands police declined to comment on the identity of the suspect or his relationship with the victims. The man was in a stable condition and remained under armed guard at an unnamed Shropshire hospital, a police spokeswoman said. Ms Higgins and the girls were understood to have been found at 7.30pm by the officer who had broken in after looking through a window and spotting a woman's body on the floor. The house had been decorated for the festive season and there were unwrapped presents belonging to the children in the room where they were found. All three victims are thought to have suffered stab wounds but the causes of death are still to be formally established. Postmortem examinations were being carried out yesterday but the results were not yet known. Ms Higgins's stepfather, Stephen Cartwright, last night issued a statement from him and his wife, Elaine, and read by a police officer. "On behalf of our family we would like to say that we are devastated at the tragic loss of our daughter, Lisa Higgins, aged 25, as well as our granddaughters, Keighley and Demmy Higgins aged six and three. "This loss has cruelly stripped our family and has created a void which will never be filled. "Lisa was a devoted mother, a wonderful sister and daughter as well as our best friend. "Keighley and Demmy were vibrant and beautiful grandchildren who were our little angels. "We are requesting that our privacy is respected at this most distressing and most difficult time and we are left to grieve with our family in private." A neighbour Debbie Bryan, who worked as a barmaid at the nearby Pool Hayes pub, described Ms Higgins and her partner as lively and sociable. She said the couple would visit the pub every weekend and let the children play out in the garden. "They were happy, normal," Ms Bryan added. Assistant Chief Constable Anil Patani said it remained unclear what had triggered the events. House to house enquiries and a forensic examination of the scene were continuing. Police were not looking for anyone else in connection with the incident but were keeping an open mind, he added.