Stuart Hyde, assistant chief constable of the West Midlands police force, has a role that sounds akin to leading the Turing Police in William Gibson's seminal cyberpunk novel Neuromancer, whose task is to prevent human-made artificial intelligences exceeding their set limits. Hyde is president of the Society for the Policing of Cyberspace – Polycyb for short.Naturally, the reality is a little more prosaic, though he appreciates the way his title sounds. But before leaping Judge Dredd-style into protecting the citizens of cyberspace, he's keen on getting a straightforward computer crime safety message out into physical neighbourhoods, via officers on the beat."I want to enable neighbourhood officers to have a basic understanding of cybercrime, e-crime, and computer crime issues – so if they're asked when speaking to their communities, they can provide the right advice and guidance where people can turn to if they need help," he says.The plan is for officers to be briefed on e-crime, with access to leaflets and knowledge of appropriate websites, before the end of this year.Hyde is also the spokesperson on e-crime prevention for the Association of Chief Police Officers, and doesn't see why e-crime safety shouldn't be delivered the same way as other policing initiatives – through the neighbourhood. "That's the way we do our business. We're in the process of developing some products that we will be able to give to officers that provides fairly simple guidance," he says.Intelligence bureauxE-crime prevention information in the UK, and the ability to report an offence, has been a bit of a postcode lottery. Police knowledge and attitudes are not consistent across the country. Both e-Crime Wales and South Yorkshire's People United Against Crime have been considered successes and are feeding into Hyde's plans. In the West Midlands, the National e-Crime Prevention Centre at the University of Wolverhampton also offers a strategy for e-crime reporting. And by the end of the year, businesses and individuals are expected to be able to report e-crime to the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau (NFIB).Hyde acknowledges that an understanding of e-crime, and the response you'll get if reporting it at a police station, will not be the same across the UK."I would like to say yes, but I know that different people have different levels of knowledge and understanding – just as they have different levels of knowledge and understanding about kidnap or ­honour-based violence."We're duty-bound, if someone walks into a station and says, 'A crime has been committed against me', to record that. But on top of that it is about how much experience that individual [officer] has got. I'd be a very brave person to say every officer is equipped to deal with, say, a worm investigation. They're not, but within the country our capacity has increased dramatically to be able to do that."Our police officers are experienced at dealing with crime. They understand how people can protect themselves and offer that advice and guidance. That's part of the normal crime reduction service we have and it's no different with online."He recognises that the problem with educating officers in computer-related crime issues is keeping their knowledge up to date. It's only simple if the officers have a personal interest in technology. Hyde himself got the tech bug while involved in an operation with Avon and Somerset constabulary early on in his career. A computer shop was selling stolen computers secondhand, and making a pretty bad job of it. "I learned how to identify stolen computers, and not just because they had 'property of University of Bristol' on them, but by going into the disk editor and looking at what was left on the hard drive, and getting some sexy technical stuff."Hyde believes everyone has a responsibility to protect themselves and their children when it comes to their computers and internet connections. "You don't have to search very far to find information that will help you to make yourself safe – there's a little bit of self-protection that has to take place, just as we want people in the non-digital world to protect themselves. You don't leave your house unless you've locked it. The e-world is exactly the same. You wouldn't let your kids just roam off and do what the hell they like; equally you wouldn't want them to do what the hell they like online."He sees a good part of the future of cyber-enforcement following the route of organisations such as the UK ISP-created Internet Watch Foundation (IWF), with connected industries leading the way.People force"Traditionally we expect UK plc to protect us from everything – but it can't. The internet is a self-generated organisation and nobody owns it and therefore it should be self-policed – that's the best policing that can take place."The aim of Polycyb is to forge international cooperation among public and private bodies to prevent and combat crimes in cyberspace, and learn from each other's models. Hyde says a number of countries now have organisations like the IWF, which takes reports of illegal online content and gets it taken down, and the Child Exploitation & Online Protection Centre (Ceop), a UK police agency. Hyde, as one of its architects, modelled elements of Ceop on the US's National Center for Missing & Exploited Children.Industry is also expected to lead in combating issues such as the copyright theft culture, highlighted by the Pirate Bay trial. "Fact [the Federation Against Copyright Theft] and Fast [the Federation Against Software Theft] have done an awful lot in this area," says Hyde, while jokingly remarking that the good people of Birmingham – where he is assistant chief constable – pay for everything they should.The education sector too has its role. "Most schools have got e-crime strategies but most won't call it that. And ICT [information and communication technology] teachers deliver more e-crime prevention guidance than the police do. They don't want the school to be downloading images, viruses, sending emails that are illegal, and don't want kids to be bullied. Schools themselves are pretty good at protecting each other."It's a model he likes. It may not be the Turing Police – but at present dealing with malicious human intelligence is quite challenging enough.