Nearly half the prisoners in Britain's biggest jail, Wandsworth prison in south London, say they have been victimised by staff, with one in eight inmates reporting that they have been kicked, hit or assaulted by officers, according to the chief inspector of prisons.Prisoners claim that the inner city jail is seen by some of staff as "the toughest prison in Britain" and they live up to its reputation by acting very aggressively.Anne Owers, in her report on the Victorian prison published today, says that her own inspection team witnessed evidence of poor behaviour by Wandsworth staff, including an incident of "abusive language". There was also an allegation of assault during their four-day visit in July.The chief inspector of prisons says that Wandsworth, which has had a difficult and troubled history, continues to suffer from overcrowding, low levels of prisoner activity and a negative staff culture. At the time of the inspection there were 1,461 prisoners in cells designed to hold 965.Ms Owers says that unlike other troubled large prisons, the overcrowded prison system has never been able to give managers at Wandsworth the headroom they need to tackle its underlying problems. The overcrowding was complicated by nearly a third of inmates being foreign nationals from 72 different countries.Ms Owers says there have been some improvements at the prison since its previous inspection in 2004, especially in cleanliness, hygiene and food. All prisoners were now out of their cells for a period of time each day and for the first time vocational training opportunities were being offered, but only 96 out of the 1,400 inmates were able to take advantage of them. Many prisoners still faced being locked up for 22.5 hours a day.This year's inspection revealed that there is still a significant way to go, particularly in attitudes and behaviour of staff. "Over half those surveyed in the main prison said they had been victimised by staff. Eight out of 10 most serious concerns identified by prisoners in interviews related to staff; and we saw evidence of poor behaviour and relationships, and an allegation of assault," says Ms Owers in her introduction. Complaints against staff, including allegations of racism, were not always pursued swiftly or vigorously.A Prison Service spokesman acknowledged that the behaviour of a minority of staff at Wandsworth was of concern and was being taken seriously. "The governor and his senior management team have made it clear that any victimisation or inappropriate behaviour by staff will not be tolerated, and will be dealt with robustly where necessary. Managers are now more visible on all residential units and prisoner representatives are actively encouraged to raise any specific concerns directly with them."