A senior manager at a British security firm, which is now part of the US conglomerate Tyco, was yesterday jailed for 18 months after pleading guilty to an elaborate invoice fraud in the mid-1990s. John Thoroughgood, former contracts manager at Modern Integrated Systems, admitted receiving payments from suppliers in exchange for allowing them to overcharge for supplying closed-circuit television, electronic monitoring and intruder systems to British nuclear power stations As a result, business worth £2m-£3m is thought to have been lost. The company was later acquired by ADT Fire & Security, a subsidiary of ADT, where one-time Conservative party treasurer Michael Ashcroft - now Lord Ashcroft - was chairman. In 1997, ADT was sold to Tyco, with its chairman netting about $280m (£186m). There is no suggestion that ADT or Tyco had any connection to the fraud. Lord Ashcroft's acquisition of MIS in the wake of a fraud scandal follows a similar pattern to his attempts in 1999 to take control of recruitment company Corporate Services Group, a firm which has also been rocked by fraud allegations. A long running serious fraud office investigation into CSG's accounting practices led, in April this year, to three former directors being charged with fraudulent trading between 1997 and 1998. The company's accounts for both years had to be restated. Mr Thoroughgood, 38, fled to Antigua in 1998 where much of the funds stolen from Chessington-based MIS are believed to have been frittered away on a luxury items including Rolex and Cartier watches, and on an unsuccessful hotel investment project. Later that year, he returned to Britain, with much of the money spent. He admitted to the serious fraud office that he had received £400,000 from his involvement in overcharging by MIS suppliers between 1992 and 1996, though the true sum could have been much higher. Yesterday at Southwark crown court judge Jeffrey Rivlin told Mr Thoroughgood: "You were responsible for, or in some way involved in, processing and approving invoices ... And, in all, some 250 false invoices were provided for work at power stations." The judged noted that Mr Thoroughgood "stood in the dock when it might well be thought there should be others there with you". As well as receiving payments from MIS suppliers, Mr Thoroughgood also awarded a fencing contract to a firm that was clearly unable to carry out the work. That firm, in turn, sub-contracted the job to Paddock Ltd, a company owned by Mr Thoroughgood. The invoice was inflated and, in some cases, the work was not carried out. The overcharging came to light in 1996 when lawyers were asked to investigate whether MIS was in a position to sue one of its suppliers. Their inquiries led to Mr Thoroughgood, who admitted his role in the fraud, but insisted others were the main beneficiaries.