The approaches taken by Cambridgeshire and Humberside police forces as they tried to explain how Ian Huntley slipped through the vetting system could hardly have been more different. Cambridgeshire immediately made it clear it was guilty of a serious error when a civilian member of staff failed to check on the police national computer both names Huntley was using. It explained the mistake clearly and concisely and apologised. Humberside appeared to try to hide behind the Data Protection Act, arguing the law prevented it from keeping intelligence records on Huntley despite him being investigated over a series of serious sexual allegations. The tactic clearly was not working yesterday. The government, data protection experts, senior police officers and the information commissioner - the person responsible for enforcing the Data Protection Act - criticised Humberside's stance. Shortly after Huntley was convicted of murdering Holly Wells and Jessica Chapman on Wednesday, Humberside's chief constable, David Westwood, described how, under his force's interpretation of the Data Protection Act, details of accusations of rape, underage sex and indecent assault, were "weeded out" of intelligence systems after just a month. But guidance on the retention of "acquittals or discontinued cases without caution" is spelled out clearly in the Code of Practice for Data Protection 1995, the guidance drawn up by the Association of Chief Constables and in force when Huntley was accused of a string of sex crimes. It says that in sex cases which are dropped because the alleged offender claims consensual sex or because there is lack of corroborating evidence, details may be retained for at least five years. Four of the offences Huntley was accused of seem to fit the code's criteria. He claimed that three of his alleged rape victims agreed to have sex and police have said they did not prosecute over an alleged indecent assault Huntley carried out on a 12-year-old girl because her story could not be corroborated. Scotland Yard commissioner Sir John Stevens said police should try to hold on to records as long as possible. "With the Data Protection Act you have to push it to the nth degree," he said. "The policy here is to hold on to things as long as we can. "If someone's being investigated for rape and there is a possibility they're a murderer, we have a duty to hold on to that. We have to think about the public interests and that the public interest is met." The Guardian conducted a straw poll of 15 forces yesterday to ask how they retained intelligence. None followed Humberside's approach. Cheshire police, for example, said intelligence was graded. "High" intelligence was filed for up to two years and then reassessed. Cleveland said information was reviewed yearly, and indecent assault or rape charges would be kept. Northumbria retains indefinitely all information relating to sexual assaults, and Suffolk said that it weeded out low-grade intelligence but kept information showing a pattern of behaviour. Cambridgeshire officers, sent to Grimsby to research Huntley's background, found "physical records" on Huntley's past - and Mr Westwood said that after Huntley's arrest detectives were able to go back and find "papers" relating to his previous alleged offences. But Humberside yesterday refused to explain how this tallied with its claims to have destroyed paper records on the accusations against Huntley. At the press conference after the verdicts, Mr Westwood claimed the force had improved the way it held intelligence. The inspectorate of constabulary inspected Humberside's intelligence system in April 2002 - four months before the girls were murdered. Its report said the force was not "advanced" in adopting a new national intelligence model; frontline staff were worried that "lack of properly collated and analysed intelligence was... hampering efficiency"; and staff criticised IT equipment. After refusing to brief journalists discreetly, the force called a press conference on the day before the jury was sent out. The judge, Mr Justice Moses, was furious and said Humberside's chief constable would be held in contempt of court if it went ahead.