When their father was finally imprisoned, after 30 years of systematic rape and abuse, which resulted in 19 pregnancies between them, his two daughters said it brought them only the knowledge that he could not physically touch them again. Their suffering, they said, would continue for many years.The disturbing case, which drew comparisons with that of the Austrian man Josef Fritzl, who imprisoned his daughter underground for 24 years and fathered her seven children, saw the 56-year-old from Sheffield groom his daughters for sex from the age of eight, beating them to make them comply. The repeated rapes, which continued until 2008, when the women finally broke their silence and sought help, resulted in him fathering their nine children, two of whom died the day they were born. The sisters also suffered five miscarriages and five terminations between them.The man, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was given 25 life sentences in November 2008, after pleading guilty to 25 counts of rape committed from the 1980s up to the present day.Sheffield crown court heard how the British man, who is divorced, began sexually abusing the sisters when they were between eight and 10. But medical records show evidence of physical abuse from very early childhood. The eldest of the sisters was found to have bruises on her back, buttocks and arms when she was just five.He "took pleasure" in assaulting the girls, the court heard, and the violent attacks would stop only while the children were pregnant."His younger daughter told of the frightening habit her father had of putting her head next to the flames of their gas fire and that when she struggled to get away on certain occasions she burnt her eyes," the prosecutor, Nicholas Campbell QC, told the court.The court was told of his efforts to keep the abuse hidden. The girls were kept out of school when their injuries were visible and the family, including a brother who lived with them until his teens, moved repeatedly to avoid suspicion. His wife left in the early 1990s.There were several contacts with authorities, however, who could have brought the attention to the police. In 1988 suspicions were raised at the victims' school due to their injuries, but these were blamed on bullying. One of the girls was asked by a doctor if her father was the father of her children, but she denied it. Her sister called Childline and asked for a guarantee that their children would not be taken away, but hung up when this assurance could not be given.In sentencing, the judge, Alan Goldsack QC, said: "The phrase 'it is difficult to imagine a worse case' is much overused and rarely, if ever, true. But I can say that in nearly 40 years of dealing with criminal cases and 14 as a family judge, the combination of aggravating circumstances here is the worst I have come across."