The hunt for Madeleine McCann rolled out across Europe yesterday as some of the continent's largest multinational companies launched a poster and text messaging campaign and money poured into a fund whose website received 25m hits on its first day.Donations were made at banks and sent by internet as Madeleine's Fund looked due for a spectacular start and the McCann family said they would hire professionals to run campaigns across Europe. "We want to make sure that if Madeleine isn't in Portugal that the rest of Europe is aware of the image of this little girl," family member Michael Wright told reporters outside the apartment complex in southern Portugal were the four-year-old girl disappeared 15 days ago.Posters of Madeleine are to be put up in aircraft and at restaurants, petrol stations, supermarkets, banks, airports and car hire offices. From BP to McDonald's and the French supermarket chain Carrefour, Madeleine's face was set to be the focal point of an unprecedented publicity campaign. Telecoms companies such as Vodafone, O2 and Spain's Telefonica will also send out text messages to clients calling for help in seeking Madeleine.Mr Wright said the campaign was being led by Madeleine's parents, doctors Gerry and Kate McCann, who have stayed in the Praia da Luz resort with their two-year-old twins, Sean and Amelie."Gerry and Kate are taking immense strength from the support and good wishes that they are receiving from all over the world," he said."Their purpose is to turn hope into action. We want everyone to have an image of Madeleine in whatever country in Europe they visit, which can only help in bringing her home," he added."Our target is to reach the saturation that we know has been achieved in the UK and certainly in the Algarve."Mr Wright said the family had been overwhelmed by offers of help from individuals, small companies and multi-national corporations. "Whilst we are not experts in campaigning, the situation we have found ourselves in has galvanised us into action," he said.The campaign was announced on the day that the Russian Sergey Malinka, whose home in Praia da Luz was raided by police on Wednesday, was released without charge. Police did not consider him to be a formal suspect and Mr Malinka insisted he had nothing to do with Madeleine's disappearance.The only named formal suspect remains 33-year-old Briton Robert Murat, who was yesterday still inside his villa, Casa Liliana, just 150 metres from the site where Madeleine disappeared.Mr Malinka confirmed yesterday that he had worked on a website for Mr Murat, but said that he was questioned because his name was in Mr Murat's phone. "They have been questioning everybody in his phone book," he said. Their relationship was "strictly professional", he said; he had been surprised to be questioned. "I've invested seven years of my life in this country trying to succeed, and suddenly in one hour it's all fallen apart," he said.Posters protesting Mr Murat's innocence appeared yesterday pasted around the Norfolk village where his estranged wife, Dawn, and three-year-old daughter live. It is not known who put the posters up. One was placed on the front door of Dawn's home in Hockering and another at a nearby bus stop.Mr Murat denies involvement in Madeleine's disappearance but friends said he risked jail under Portuguese law if he spoke out. "There is nothing Robert and Jenny [his mother] can do right now," said a friend, Tuck Price. "If they say something, they can be thrown in jail."Police were yesterday reportedly still following other lines of inquiry, with residents of the nearby village of Burgau saying they had once more been shown photographs of a Polish man who was reported to have been photographing small children. He had been driving a car with false numberplates, according to the Publico newspaper.A day after MPs in the Commons sported yellow ribbons to show their support for the McCann family, England's cricketers followed suit yesterday in the first Test match against the West Indies at Lord's.Who's helpingThe multinationals involved in spreading Madeleine's face across Europe include BP, Shell, Texaco, Esso and TOTAL/ELF, which will be distributing posters at petrol stations. France's Crédit Agricole and La Poste banks and Spain's Banco Santander will also put up posters and McDonald's will put up posters across Europe. Carrefour supermarkets will display posters in France, Spain and Portugal. British Airways, Budget Car Rental and BAA will have posters at airports, car hire centres and on flights. Text messages will be sent out by Vodafone, O2 and Spain's Telefonica.