"What criminal incompetence" is the headline on the front of today's Daily Mail while the Sun's simply says "Disgrace". "Idiots" says the Daily Express.More than 1,000 foreigners who were freed from prison should have faced deportation after serving their sentences. But the home secretary, Charles Clarke, admitted yesterday that seven years of systemic failures at the Home Office from 1999 meant that the foreign convicts were simply released."Killers, rapists, paedophiles ... 1,000 convicted foreign criminals who should have been deported are at large - and the Home Office hasn't a clue where they are," the Mail says.In fact, the Guardian says it is actually around 900 foreign criminals who are missing. So far, out of a total of 1,023 foreign nationals, 107 have been traced and 20 deported since the Home Office realised there was a serious problem in this area.The Times says that it learned last night that the Home Office cannot "even trace the three foreign murderers and nine rapists released in the deportation fiasco".The Sun says Mr Clarke's future is in "grave doubt", although Downing Street said it was not a resigning matter and ministers could not be expected to know every "nook and cranny" of their departments. The paper's political editor George Pascoe-Watson tells the papers readers not to expect Mr Clarke to walk the plank because loyal lieutenants of Tony Blair are thin on the ground and he can't afford to lose any.The Mirror, which says the blunder ranks among the most serious mistakes made by a government made worse because it was entirely avoidable. But in its leader column the paper refrains from calling on Mr Clarke to go but says he knows that the public wants protecting not more apologies.Clarke described it as a "basic administrative failure" and a "shocking state of affairs", and apologised. He said he took responsibility but added that there had been failures in various areas including the prison service and immigration services. The former home secretary David Blunkett has said "heads should roll".However, the Guardian's leader says: "Charles Clarke does not deserve all the blame. The chaos began five years before he even arrived at the Home Office. He is right to argue that his job is now to sort out the mess."Home Office sources tell the Guardian that the root of the problem was that the prison service was very poor at flagging up when a prisoner was reaching the end of a sentence and telling immigration authorities.And there was a problem coping with the increasing volume of cases coming through. The number of foreign nationals held in prisons in England and Wales has increased in the last seven years from around 4,200 to around 10,200 now.The Times says the increase in foreigners has compounded the overcrowding in prisons. Foreigners now account for more than an eighth of the total of 76,670 people currently in prison.The Telegraph says "characteristically" the Home Office that it cannot say if the missing foreign convicts had carried out more crimes in the period since their release. Several papers note that while the Home Office says it is "energetically" seeking the missing foreigners, the police has yet to be given a list of their names.In its leader columns the Times calls the failures a "shocking Home Office folly". The paper says that while the Immigration Nationality Directorate was "under intense political pressure to find and exclude failed asylum-seekers outside the prison system, [it] seems to have forgotten to check on the most unsavoury and unwanted of visitors".It says the chances of finding the outstanding 916 people who have been freed incorrectly since February 1999 and then returning them to their home states is "minimal".The Guardian's Alan Travis says the scale of the blunder is only matched in recent Home Office history by the prison service fiasco of 1996 when 541 prisoners had to be released early because a mistake had been made in calculating their sentences.* This is an extract from the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's digest of the daily papers. Read a sample edition and get a free subscription to The Friday Thing when you subscribe.