 Financial Times Editorial, February 10"The creation of a UK-wide Serious Organised Crime Agency will merge four organisations involved in the fight against international crimes such as people-smuggling and drug-trafficking. It will create a single agency to coordinate the police forces that provide the local links essential for day-to-day law enforcement. However, the exclusion of counterterrorism appears anomalous. There is an overlap between terrorist organisations and drug smuggling and the gangs that traffic in illegal immigrants also create conduits through which weapons can be transported.""In the US, the FBI includes terrorism in its scope. The new British agency - which is modelled on the FBI - should have similar responsibilities. It is hard to see why counterterrorism should remain the sole territory of the security services, apart from providing a continuing role for MI5 after the cold war." John Stalker Daily Mail, February 10  "I am not convinced that our failure to cope with crime is a matter of poor policing. Poor decisions by the Crown Prosecution Service and soft sentencing by courts also play a part. All the fancy agencies in the world will not deal with these failures of will. We simply do not need a Hollywood-style army of elite 'agents' armed to the teeth, licensed to kill and ready to kick the door down in front of the TV cameras. My experience of the US makes me fearful that we are about to create what could become a monster agency which will be increasingly hard to control""Moreover, I am uneasy about any home secretary having the effective power to appoint the head of the new agency. This would inevitably become a political appointment. A much greater reform will be to scrap the 43 police forces [in Britain] and replace them with between eight and 10 regional forces, big enough to handle all but the most dramatic of crimes." · John Stalker is former deputy chief constable of Greater Manchester Police  Independent Editorial, February 10  "Combining organisations under one umbrella could, if handled properly, reduce overlapping responsibilities and duplicated costs, and allow more resources to be brought to bear on individual investigations. On the other hand, large bureaucracies are difficult to manage and even more difficult to reform if things go wrong" "There are many advantages to local policing that should not be lost. It is also important to maintain the ability for local forces to innovate, such as the sensible cannabis policing initiative in London's Lambeth. The FBI provides a warning of the need for adequate control of powerful police forces. We should also be told about the establishment of an equally strong independent authority to keep this new force in line."  Daily Post Editorial, Liverpool, February 10  "The make or break will be the strength or otherwise of the relationship between the new agency and the regional forces currently struggling to contain serious crime on their own patches. In the US, the FBI exists alongside local police departments and an understanding has grown up that allows progress. The local forces understand that they do not have anything like sufficient resources to fight big-time criminals in their own right and accept the muscle the FBI commands." "The FBI realises in turn that it relies heavily on the local knowledge and contacts the police departments can provide. It has taken years of tolerance and harsh lessons for things to function as well as they do. Local forces will no doubt question why a hugely resourced agency can be created at a stroke when they have been crying out for better funding for years as they take on the crime gangs. It will require a great amount of patience and faith on all sides if [it] is to succeed."  Daily Telegraph Editorial, February 10   "There may be some arguments in favour of creating a centralised crime fighting force, but they were not convincingly made in [the home secretary] David Blunkett's statement. It is important to remember the FBI came into being in the US a century ago to counter criminals operating across the borders of individual states, which to this day retain jurisdiction over the vast majority of criminal prosecutions.""There is no such problem of jurisdiction under British law. And there are already agencies, such as Customs and Excise and the National Criminal Intelligence Service, which operate across the traditional command structures of individual police forces. The better question is why these groups are not currently performing satisfactorily; if they are not, then radical management changes may be necessary."  Sun Editorial, February 10  "Organised crime has woven a worldwide web of evil. In Britain, it is estimated to cost our economy £40bn a year. With the best will in the world, our police forces are struggling to win the fight against such formidable opponents. That is why we welcome the government's bold plan. The man tipped to head the agency is American Bill Bratton, who spearheaded the 'zero tolerance' campaign that cleaned up the streets of New York. He sounds like just the man to wield the big stick here."