A killer who caught a bus while carrying the remains of his victim hidden in a suitcase faces life imprisonment after he was convicted of murder at the Old Bailey today.After leaving the bus, Daniel Archer threw the case containing a woman's torso into a canal in London, where it was found and opened by children playing downstream.Police linked the suitcase to Archer, 53, as it had on it the name and address of his brother, who was known to police.Officers traced the suitcase to Archer's brother's flat in Islington, north London, where Archer was living while his brother was in prison. Today, a jury took less than an hour to find Archer guilty of killing Nasra Ismail, a 27-year-old Somalian prostitute who he had taken to his brother's flat after picking her up in King's Cross, London, in March last year.Archer, unemployed, of Poole, Dorset, paid Ms Ismail £20 for sex, Dorian Lovell-Pank QC, prosecuting, told the jury. They then smoked crack cocaine before he killed her.Archer told police he killed Ms Ismail in self defence when she attacked him with a knife and demanded £150 which he had from his incapacity benefit, Mr Lovell-Pank said. The court was told that Archer, who had denied murder, battered her to death with a crowbar and then put the body into a holdall. After hearing the jury's verdict, Judge Giles Forrester told Archer: "You have been convicted on overwhelming evidence. There can only be one sentence: life, which is mandatory." The judge will decide on Friday the minimum term Archer must serve before he can be considered for parole, but he warned him today that it was "likely to be a long minimum term". The police said Archer was a violent predator who targeted vulnerable women. After killing Ms Ismail, the prosecution told the jury, he left her body in the flat and travelled north to Nottingham, Leeds and Wakefield, returning two weeks later. Mr Lovell-Pank said: "When he let himself into the flat, the smell was so bad that he was unable to handle the situation. So he left again and caught a coach to Bournemouth, making his way to his estranged wife's house in Poole. "He realised the problem of having a dead body in your flat was not just going to go away. He decided to dispose of the body and so he came back to London. "He bought a hacksaw and a pair of rubber gloves. By now it was 22 days after the murder. Back at the flat he began cutting up her body on the living room floor, using the saw and a knife. "He cut off first the arms, then the legs, then the head. He did not quite decide where or how he was going to dispose of the pieces," said Mr Lovell-Pank.Because of the smell, he put the torso into the fridge and the head and limbs in the freezer. Then he put the head and limbs in a holdall and took them to the Regent's Canal. Weighing it down with a piece of tarmac he dropped it into the water at the Caledonian Bridge. "He then went back to get the torso which he put into a suitcase and took that to the canal. On the way he found the suitcase was heavy to carry, so he caught a bus to take him. "When he arrived he saw children playing, so rather than be seen, he lugged the case along to York Bridge and then threw it into the canal. "Unfortunately for him it did not sink but bobbed. Alarmed he would be caught, he did not go to the flat but caught a coach to Bournemouth and stayed at his wife's until his arrest." "The torso floated a mile downstream, where children playing by the canal saw it. When they opened it they found the woman's torso and called the police." After officers had traced the case to his brother and then to Archer, he immediately told police he had killed her in self defence, Mr Lovell-Pank told the court. Detective Superintendent Maureen Boyle, who led the investigation for the Metropolitan police's specialist crime directorate from Barking, said it was a "disturbing" case. "Ms Ismail suffered a violent death at the hands of Daniel Archer and we are therefore extremely satisfied with today's result."Archer has shown himself to be a violent and manipulative sexual predator who deliberately targeted vulnerable women. He targeted women who, he believed, would be unable to speak out against him."Det Supt Boyle praised the courage of two women who gave evidence against Archer.