A teenage boy has been arrested in connection with a house fire that killed a five-year-old girl and a two-year-old boy.The brother and sister, named by local people as Niamh and Cayden, died after the fire gutted their home in Buxton, Derbyshire, last night.The mother of the children, named locally as 23-year-old Fiona Adams, escaped from the property with an eight-month-old baby. They are in separate Manchester hospitals and are being treated for severe burns.A 17-year-old boy was arrested this morning and was due to be questioned later today, said the assistant chief constable of Manchester police, Steve Cotterill.Emergency services were called to the house just after 11.45pm last night but had been unable to get inside due to safety concerns, he said. It is believed the mother and her baby escaped by jumping down to a trampoline in the garden.Cotterill said: "A 23-year-old woman and her eight-month-old baby managed to jump to safety from a rear bedroom window. They were both taken to hospitals in Manchester suffering from burns. The mother is currently in a specialist burns unit and the baby has since been transferred to the Royal Manchester children's hospital."Tragically two other children, a five-year-old girl and a two-year-old boy, died when they were unable to escape from the property."We do not know the cause of the fire as yet at this stage, but we are treating it as suspicious."Cotterill said police had been called to the house on Edale Way earlier in the evening after reports of noise and nuisance in the garden, but officers found nothing of concern."We are now looking for any possibility that there may be a connection to this first call with the fire that took place," he added.He also confirmed that police had gone to the address several times over the past three years, but to attend domestic-related incidents rather than antisocial behaviour or nuisance-related incidents.He said he had referred the case to the Independent Police Complaints Commission because of the earlier police contact.Karen Jackson, a neighbour who has known the family for seven years, said she was at the scene from around midnight. "Fiona had already gone to the hospital. Cayden and Niamh were still in the house, they were trapped."They were brilliant, a lovely family. Fiona loved the kids to bits. They would do anything for the kids."She said she could not think of anyone who would want to harm the family. "Everyone liked them, everyone. They didn't have any enemies. It's heartbreaking, I'm still in shock now. I just feel numb."Shaun Scullion, 45, said: "They were a happy, great family. The kids were always playing outside."I heard screaming, the mother was coming out. I just went blank then."