Paul Curtis, more commonly known as Moose, has taken the principle of being a graffiti artist and turned it on its head.To his supporters, he is talented and innovative, to his detractors he is an urban vandal. He uses detergent and a wire brush to create designs in the dirt which has built up on pavements and walls over the years. In his home town Leeds, the local authority has had a sense of humour failure and has condemned his work. So he has now left a series of designs in Manchester's Piccadilly Gardens and is awaiting to see if he will be banned from the city. Mr Curtis, who works during the night to avoid the authorities, can earn up to £600 a day from advertisers. He said: "I love what I do because it's totally subversive. And all I'm really doing is cleaning. Surely people can't have a problem with that?" But, in Leeds, they do have a problem. Gerry Harper, a city councillor, described it as vandalism. "It's totally ridiculous really," Mr Curtis replied. "All I am doing is cleaning their walls. Councillors only want me prosecuted because they're embarrassed by how dirty their cities are." He claims his art is legal because he isn't actually painting anything on to the walls or street. No other similar case has come before a court, but the crown prosecution service says he may be in breach of the Anti-Social Behaviour Act. He has devised a form of street art, which not only livens up city streets, but removes the grime which has built up. His method takes any dirty inner-city wall or pavement, place a template against it and scrub until the concrete is clean. It reveals an image - as sharp as any spray paint - which fades with time. He has had contracts with companies as diverse as Microsoft, Channel 4 (with the Big Brother eye logo) and the drinks firm Diego. His art has reached improbable places from signposts in Edinburgh to London's Blackwall Tunnel. But the graffiti which has led to a legal challenge is in his home town of Leeds. The city council demanded he clean-up a piece of graffiti promoting Smirnoff Vodka in one of the city's gloomiest underpasses. The vodka company regards the artist's work as a perfect way to reach a teenage market bombarded with multi-media advertising messages. The row is a source of dismay to Mr Curtis. "As soon as I've done one it creates a lot of buzz," he said. "A lot of people start talking about it. It means I can create images in horrible, shitty tunnels, dirty walkways, anywhere." A Leeds city council spokeswoman said: "Leeds residents want to live in clean and attractive neighbourhoods, and expect their streets to be free of graffiti and illegal advertising. "We also view this kind of rogue advertising as environmental damage and will take strong action against any advertisers carrying out such campaigns without the relevant permission."