A convicted rapist recently released from prison is believed to have killed his parents before being found dead.Ashraf Amrani, 30, was discovered unresponsive on a first-floor roof in Westbourne Park Road, west London, on Friday. Days earlier he had been arrested on suspicion of affray.When police went to a flat nearby to inform his next of kin of the death, they found the bodies of a husband and wife – Hassan and Zohra Amrani – believed to be Ashraf’s parents. Their deaths are being treated as suspicious and officers say they are not looking for anyone else.A court official confirmed that in June 2010 Ashraf Amrani had been jailed for seven years and two months after being found guilty of rape at Southwark crown court. Detectives said they were treating his death as unexplained.A neighbour said police had been called to the address on Thursday, but a man, believed to have been the couple’s son, had tried to prevent them from going inside. “The last time I saw the wife was on Thursday and she didn’t look happy. She looked a bit fed up and sad,” she said. “We were walking into the estate together. I told her my mum was in Bangladesh and she said she wanted to go back to Morocco. She was a bit fed up. She said her husband had called her and said there was some trouble in the house.“On that same night when I went home my brother told me that police had been round and they were looking for the son and opened the door. He got the impression he was in there and not letting them in.”The neighbour said she had not seen the couple’s son for a few years until seeing him about six weeks ago. Although he used to get into a fair amount of trouble, he had never disturbed her, she said.Scotland Yard confirmed that a 30-year-old man had been arrested on 10 February on suspicion of affray and had been due to answer bail on 18 February. A spokesman said: “A referral will be made to the Independent Police Complaints Commission on Monday.”The neighbour, who asked not to be named, paid tribute to the “lovely couple”, who were originally from Morocco and had a grown-up daughter and a young grandson. She said: “They were just a really nice couple. I’m just so shocked. They were always so nice. She would always go and see her daughter and grandson. The husband was a very quiet man. They had an extremely beautiful house. She kept everything immaculate. It is awful.”Other friends of the couple said the deaths were a “tragedy”.Forensics officers were seen searching the flat shortly after the discovery of the bodies.The couple’s next of kin have been informed of the deaths, but police have not released the names of the victims. Postmortem examinations will take place in due course. 