Criminal gangs behind carousel rackets and bank and credit card scams are boosting fraud in Britain to record levels, figures released today claim. But frauds by individuals that include an organist who stole £150,000 from the church and a jailed City slicker who ripped off fellow inmates account for a large number of cases.For the fourth six-month period in a row, more than 100 fraud cases have come to court, with a value of nearly £600m, according to research by the accountants KPMG. Its forensic unit's "fraud barometer" says that the biggest cases coming to court over the past six months have been carousel frauds. Four cases were worth a total of £440m, with the single largest case valued at £250m.The cases include a gang of six men convicted in Liverpool in June of robbing the taxpayer of £85m in an elaborate carousel - or missing trader - fraud. The men imported mobile phones free of VAT, sold them on and disappeared without paying the VAT. Professional criminals were also active in a number of other areas and were involved in one third of cases coming to court at a total value of £538m (91% of the total value). Frequent areas of activity have included cigarette duty frauds, benefits scams, ID thefts, fake bank cards and money laundering."The recent trend now looks unmistakable," said Hitesh Patel of KPMG Forensic. "The amount of fraud coming to court has undergone a step-change over the last couple of years, and these high levels look like they are here to stay. The good news is that more fraud is being detected and prosecuted in court. The bad news is that this is probably because more fraud is being committed."The government was the main victim over the period, with £485m of fraud committed against it. Investors (£47m) and financial institutions (£29m) were the next biggest targets. Once again, London and the south-east saw the most fraud (£319m across 42 cases), but the north-west was not far behind (£187m across 20 cases).One fraudster was alleged to have carried on his trade even after he had been committed to prison. A City investor jailed for a £1m fraud was charged with persuading inmates at Ford Open Prison to hand over about £160,000, promising high returns.