Judges are to be told that they must follow the fate of the individuals they convict - perhaps by visiting them in prison, or at least by regularly reviewing the offenders' efforts at rehabilitation.The dramatic initiative is designed to break the cycle of reoffending and develop a culture of rehabilitation in Britain's overcrowded prison system. It will form the centrepiece of the government's 10-year crime plan to be announced on Monday. Prisoners will be given credit with community sentences or early release if they show willingness to undertake job training or take part in literacy classes. The plan is directed at reducing reoffending by the 100,000 hardcore criminals. It is estimated that 10% of offenders accumulate at least half of all serious convictions. The crime plan will also contain proposals for evening and weekend courts, drug courts, a wider social base for magistrates and the removal of most routine traffic offences from magistrates courts. There will be moves, long advocated by Lord Williams, the attorney general, for an end to the culture of part-time judges such as recorders, and more training for the judiciary. Ministers are also to propose reform to the "just desserts policy" in the 1991 Criminal Justice Act whereby the court was directed to take less notice of a criminal's previous convictions and instead sentence on the basis of the specific offence under trial. The 1991 act, piloted by the Tory home secretary Douglas Hurd, led to a fall in the prison population from 50,000 to 42,000. The new conditions for prisoners on parole, or anyone charged with community sentences, is designed to end the so-called revolving door of 100,000 persistent offenders who leave and then re-enter prison. Home Office research shows that within two years of starting a community sentence or finishing a jail term, over half of offenders - and nearly 80% of those with more than 10 previous convictions - will be back in court to be convicted for further offences. Among these 100,000 persistent offenders, half are under 21, nearly two thirds are hard drug users, more than a third were in care as children, half have no qualifications, and three quarters have no work, or little or no legal income. At present 67% of prisoners do not have the reading and writing skills to do 80% of the jobs in the labour market. The government will as a result place a new premium on literacy courses in prisons. The crime plan will be presented by Tony Blair on Monday when he visits a home counties jail, the first prime minister in living memory to visit a prison. A No 10 source said: "We are going to be the first government to take repeat offending seriously. The criminal justice system is based on just desserts for individual offences, but we want to stop people reoffending and move them onto the path back to a lawful life. We are opening up the agenda on this." A criminal justice minister said the key was to ease the path from prison to work by repeatedly reviewing an offender's efforts to gain qualifications or end dependence on drugs. Ministers concede that criminals currently given short prison sentences or released on an electronic tag rarely receive any help once they are released on probation. Balancing more frequent court reviews of the criminal's efforts to find work skills, Monday's plan will state that the courts must adopt a tougher sentencing policy towards reoffenders. As a result, the government will state that it has set aside 2,500 extra prison places, the equivalent of five extra jails. A third of the extra £700m set aside for the programme will be spent on rehabilitation programmes. The classic Blairite balancing of opportunities and responsibilities has been adopted in drug treatment and testing orders, adopted last autumn, which allow anyone convicted of an imprisonable offence and tested positive for drugs to be given a community sentence so long as they agree to attend a regular drug treatment course. Anyone subject to an order can be sent to prison if they repeatedly fail to attend the rehabilitation course or are tested positive for drugs. Pilots of the drug treatment orders found a fall in drug use and reconviction rates. The tougher sentencing policy for repeat offenders was expected to emerge as part of a Home Office review of sentencing policy due to be completed in May. Critics claim that the courts in effect quietly dropped the just desserts policy two years ago. They also say the parole board rarely releases without proof of the prisoner having undertaken some form of antioffending programmes inside. Ministers believe specialist judges will be more self-confident and hand out tough sentences without fear of being overturned on appeal.