The Hoxton Street Chicken and Pizza takeaway is open again for business although customers can't miss the flowers, cards and poems piled up outside, along with a girl's blue school sweatshirt signed and love-hearted in black marker. There is already a plan to paint a graffiti-style RIP mural on the brick wall on the street corner, something more common in the gangland war zones of inner-city America than in a north London market street.Schoolgirl Agnes Sina-Inakoju came here for chicken and chips with three friends on 14 April. In the early evening, in the few minutes' walk from their homes in Hackney's De Beauvoir Estate in the last week of the Easter school holidays, the girls had met a few local boys and were laughing in the queue when two figures on bicycles pulled up outside.When someone saw the gun everyone hit the floor apart from Agnes. With her back to the window she was confused by the commotion and stayed standing even as her best friend Priscilla pulled on her hand and urged her to get down. There was a shot through the glass and the 16-year-old fell backwards, blood streaming from her neck.It was on the Friday morning, two days later, that she died, with her mother, Safurat, at her hospital bedside and just a few hours after the group of around 40 friends and family who had been keeping a vigil of prayers and tears outside the hospital had gone home, believing she would, against the odds, survive her wounds. Safurat knew she wouldn't. "They murdered my baby. She was an innocent child," she said.Agnes, a bright, beautiful star pupil who loved music, fashion and public speaking, had never been involved in a gang or in any fights; she was simply in the wrong place at the wrong time. According to local teenagers, the gun was aimed at a boy in the takeaway, a tit-for-tat retaliation after a street fight earlier in the week."A family is destroyed," said Safurat, sitting numbly on a black leather couch. Her daughter-in-law has put a plate of soup and yam in front of her but it is barely touched. She hasn't been sleeping, she admits, and struggles to speak, leaving sentences unfinished. The curtains are drawn against the beautiful spring sunshine."The sun has gone out… what can I do?"The NHS care worker raised all her five children in Hackney. Agnes was the youngest and, as a Muslim, was named Karimot when she was born but, after her father had left the family, she was renamed Agnes by the priest who insisted she was christened before starting at the local Catholic primary school. No one in the family had ever been the victim of, or even witnessed, a crime before, Safurat says. She felt safe here and would never have believed any of her children would ever have seen a gun. "If this thing can happen to us it can happen to anyone. No one is safe," she said."Of course I would worry about her, but how can we stop our children going out? They are supposed to go out, be with their friends. She had to be free, to have confidence. I would call her and ask her where she was, and if I thought it was a little too far away she would say: 'OK, Mum, I'll come home. Don't worry, I am with my friends.' It's crazy, always she was saying: 'Don't worry, Mum.'"When her friends were round here I would make sure they all went home at a decent time. What are the parents of these boys doing? How would a child get a gun?"Safurat still can't hold a funeral as her daughter's body has yet to be released by the police. She has visited the takeaway but "couldn't stay more than a minute".Police investigating the murder point out that the incidence of people being killed or hurt in shootings in London is still "extraordinarily rare", although officers seized 60 guns in the borough of Hackney last year and there are constant reports of gunfire incidents. Last year 14 teenagers were murdered in London, but only one of them was shot."It is just so shocking to me," said Agnes's sister, sociology student Atinuke, 23. "I knew there was violence but I wasn't scared for her because she wasn't the sort of person to get involved with the wrong crowd. Not like some of the young boys round here who get pulled into things by older men, joining gangs."She is a happy girl, never done anything wrong, everyone loves her. She loved going out, being sociable, all my friends loved her. She was just the best sister, I miss her so much. She was the baby. With three older brothers, I nagged my mum for a sister. All I wanted was a sister. Agnes was just the most beautiful baby and everyone spoiled her. If I wanted something I had to ask twice; Agnes, she just asked once and she got it. Even if she is in trouble and I'm angry because she's stealing my clothes, she gives you the big smile and makes you laugh."Dancing to Rihanna's Rude Boy on her mobile phone ringtone, or to the music of Michael Jackson, Lil Wayne and rapper TI on her laptop, Agnes was like any other 16-year-old city girl, who watched Hollyoaks and EastEnders and adored chocolate and junk food."She loved that chicken and chips," smiled Atinuke. The sisters had a secret plan that when Agnes turned 18 they would send her pictures to modelling agencies. The tall, stunning young girl was always being told she should be a catwalk model and she loved fashion."She was so beautiful. We'd have to wait until she was 18 or my mum would go crazy that she was neglecting her education." Now Atinuke wants her family to move from the area. "The person that did this to my sister might get sent to jail but then he will get out again and be walking around here. What do I do if I bump into him? How can we ever feel safe?""We really just miss her," said Abiola, 30, one of Agnes's brothers. "She was the baby of the house, the focus, and we all looked out for her. You just want to protect her and we couldn't. I don't understand why people would want to have guns. Now we'd just like to see the person who did this off the street."Agnes's looks and ready smile made her a popular girl. Hundreds of people joined social networking and memorial sites in her honour. At the Crib youth centre, right across a small square of grass from the block of flats where she lived, a wall of photographs has sprung up, etched with tributes and poems from her traumatised friends. A poster Agnes had helped design for an anti-gun and knife crime campaign also hangs there. The campaign, called Consequences, was being run at the Crib to encourage teenagers to speak out against violence.Her own friends are finding it hard to speak to the police about what they saw, despite being offered protection. "There is a lot of fear. Nobody wants to be a grass and nobody wants to have to go to court and give evidence and have everyone know they give evidence," said one girl. "One boy might be jailed but their gang knows who you are."Two men have now been charged with her murder. Mohammed Smoured, 21, of Hackney, appeared before Thames magistrates yesterday, charged with murder. On Tuesday Leon Dunkley, 21, also of Hackney, was remanded in custody by magistrates, charged with murder and possession of a firearm with intent to endanger life. A 16-year-old boy arrested in connection with the fatal shooting has been released on bail until June.Kelly Reid, a youth worker, said: "The kids are finding it really hard to accept Agnes's death. They're in bits. Kids shouldn't have to deal with this level of violence. Most of the kids who come here are from strong families, with strong morals, but even so they find it very difficult to get involved with the investigation because they are scared of retaliation. They think the sentences won't be long enough, that they will be forced to give evidence and their names will be given to the perpetrator. It is terrifying for them."Last year Agnes won a prize in a public speaking competition for her contribution about racism. "Imagine a world without racism, a place where everyone is equal. We are all beautiful, we are all talented and we all have a future," she said in her speech. "We share a world together. Let's start living it."Her words are now being used by the staff at the Crib, who are busily preparing to have them printed on T-shirts for Agnes's friends to wear at her funeral.Jeanette Collins, who runs the Crib, indicated the grass outside the club. "We're calling that the Agnes Walk now, because we all think of Agnes sashaying across here with her big smile, always the first to volunteer for something or to get involved in a discussion."It is very hard to believe she is gone. There have been a lot of tears but sometimes that's not enough, sometimes you just have to scream."