There was a time, at the start of the 1990s, when it seemed that the British police service, reeling from the disclosure of investigative malpractice that began with the release of the Guildford Four, had lost the capacity to reform itself, and was unlikely to survive in its existing form. That such predictions proved inaccurate is in no small measure down to the psychologist and detective Tom Williamson, who has died aged 59 of mesothelioma. The former deputy chief constable of Nottinghamshire, he was a central figure in police modernisation for more than two decades.Building from the analysis of mishandled interrogations and miscarriages of justice contained in his 1990 Kent University PhD, Williamson was at the forefront of a radical shift in police interview techniques and training, determined that the one-time emphasis on "getting a cough" at any cost should be replaced by a neutral search for reliable evidence.He was a committed Christian, and the drive towards what he called "ethical policing" dominated his working life, from his time as a young officer in the early 1970s in A10, the Metropolitan police anti-corruption branch set up by Sir Robert Mark. After retiring in 2001, he became a senior research fellow at Portsmouth University's Institute of Criminal Justice Studies - Britain's biggest criminology department and a body that, 10 years earlier, he had been instrumental in establishing. At the time of his death, he was working on several academic pieces and books, and friends report that he retained his sweeping intellectual curiousity to the end.Aside from his role as a thinker, writer and reformer, Williamson was an operational detective par excellence. In the Met, where he reached the rank of commander before leaving for Nottingham in 1995, he spent several years in charge of the country's busiest pool of murder squads. Among the crimes he helped to solve was the brutal killing of the 14-year-old Jason Swift by paedophiles.The son of a dairyman, Williamson spent his childhood as part of a close family in rural Fife and Perthshire; he attended Perth high school, before joining the Met as a cadet in 1964, aged 17. His subsequent academic distinctions - both his doctorate and his psychology BA from York University, awarded in 1982 - were the product of police-funded scholarships, as the service, aware of the low educational level of most of its members, began to remedy the defect. As Williamson's horizons broadened, he saw how university research could benefit street policing.His spiritual development was progressing at the same time. The turning point was Billy Graham's mission to the UK in 1966. From then on, Williamson's faith was unshakeable, and he became an active member of the Christian Police Association, where he met his wife, also then an officer, in 1969. His faith gave him what might, at first, look like a veneer of naivety, especially when coping with the Met's ferocious office politics. In fact, it was a source of personal strength that enabled him to always look for the good that he believed lay in every human being. Punishment, he emphasised, should be therapeutic not retributive, and he eagerly seized on the 1998 Human Rights Act as a blueprint applicable to every aspect of the criminal process.Williamson's rise through the ranks was steady, if not spectacular: an inspector by 1982, he was promoted to commander in 1989. At each level, however, his influence far outstripped his nominal place in the hierarchy. By the mid-1980s, he was identified as a key member of what some termed the Met's "progessive tendency", a cadre of then middle-ranking officers who were convinced that in order to survive, British policing had to transform itself from within. The arrival of Sir Peter Imbert as commissioner in 1987 gave Williamson and the group their opportunity. If the television drama Life on Mars, about a modern-day detective transplanted back to the police of 1973, reveals the extent of the changes, many of them are ultimately traceable to that cadre's work.The report of the 1993 royal commission on criminal justice quoted extensively from Williamson's research into the way suspects - as he saw it - abused their right to silence, and the law was changed. In the same period, he played a leading role in developing the model of investigative interviewing known as Peace - planning and preparation, engage and explain, account, closure and evaluation - that is now the basis of the national training programme all officers undergo. It has since been adopted by several countries abroad.After Williamson, the "verbal", the fabricated admission once the mainstay of numerous prosecutions, became consigned to the past. He was also heavily involved in the development of "intelligence-led" policing. In east London, he helped to establish a network of covert listening posts, aimed at building a strategic picture of organised crime; in the 1990s, he was at the heart of secret campaigns against the problem of drug-related violence. In each, say his colleagues, he showed a willingness to mount "creative operations", while always maintaining a strong ethical hand on the wheel.As commander of the Hendon police training college in the early 1990s, Williamson fostered the development of the Portsmouth University centre by setting up extra-mural diplomas in policing that gave ordinary constables new opportunities for personal development. As he became a full-time academic from 2001, his own scope continued to widen. Among a huge body of published work was last year's edited volume Investigative Interviewing, in which his introduction, on human rights and interrogation in the war on terror, was an eloquent defence of the principles of decency and fairness that actuated his career.He is survived by Rita, his wife for 36 years. There are plans for a charitable foundation devoted to police reform and a memorial lecture.· Thomas Manclark Williamson, police officer, born June 11 1947; died February 25 2007