A woman saw 10-year-old Damilola Taylor walking alone towards an alleyway just four minutes before he was found bleeding to his death on a stairwell after being stabbed, it emerged today.News of the potentially crucial witness came as Damilola's father Richard was reunited with his family in London after flying in to London's Gatwick airport from Lagos, Nigeria. It also emerged today that a child who was seen being marched along a road near the murder scene in Peckham, south-east London in a headlock on Monday afternoon was not Damilola. Detectives will today speak to a boy and a girl who were filmed with Damilola on CCTV going into a library for an after-school computer class. The two children, who are not suspects, have been identified by police, and officers will ask them what Damilola was saying in the hour before his brutal death. Police are also exploring the possibility that Damilola was followed from the library by his attackers. Detective superintendent David Dillnutt, who is in charge of the inquiry, disclosed that a female witness spotted the boy walking past her home along Cronin Street in Peckham at about 4.45pm. At 4.49pm, a member of the public rang the emergency services to report a boy bleeding to death on a stairwell on the North Peckham estate. Damilola left a 100-yard trail of blood as he tried to flee his attackers. He was bleeding heavily from a stab wound to his left leg.Police are hunting three black youths who were wearing dark clothing and were seen running away from the murder scene. Officers are also seeking information in relation to a reported bottle fight between youths outside the library where Damilola had gone to take his computer class at about 4pm. Police were called to the fight but found no evidence of a disturbance. Yesterday, it was disclosed that a second knife was found about 200 metres from where Damilola lay bleeding to death. That blade, along with another knife and a shard of glass, are still undergoing forensic tests. Detectives are also investigating a note found in Damilola's locker at Oliver Goldsmith primary school containing the name of one boy who may have been bullying the Nigerian-born youngster. The dead boy's mother, Gloria, had voiced concerns to the school about bullying of her son the day before his death. More than 40 detectives are working on the case - the biggest murder hunt in London since the Jill Dando investigation. The home secretary, Jack Straw, made a direct appeal for help in tracking down those responsible for what he called the "evil" killing. Mr Dillnutt said that children with information should not be frightened to come forward and if they were worried about speaking to police then they should talk to their parents, teachers or other community leaders, he said. Related special report Policing crime Related stories1 December 2000: New evidence in Damilola murder 30 November: Straw appeals to public after 'evil' schoolboy murder 30 November: 'My son is dead and I am bitter' Leader: Death in Peckham 30 November: Head defends bullying record 30 November: Estate is 'one of toughest in Europe' 29 November: Death of a school boy 29 November: It's lawless out there Useful linksMetropolitan police The home office Ofsted report: the Oliver Goldsmith primary school Local media: South London online London borough of Southwark Photographs of the North Peckham estate