A jilted husband has been jailed for at least 25 years for stabbing his estranged wife to death after arming himself with knives given to the couple as a wedding present.A judge told Ty Medland, 26, he was responsible for the "frenzied and savage" murder of Samantha Medland in public. Medland concealed four knives on himself before attacking 24-year-old Mrs Medland in Brighton in February.Medland earlier posted a link on his Facebook page to a series of graphic pictures and videos of the couple having sex. A message he wrote accompanying the link referred to Mrs Medland as "the cheating, lying, unloyal whore who destroyed everything I loved and believe in".A two-week trial at Lewes crown court heard that she had become close to another man and had rebuffed her husband's repeated attempts to patch up their marriage.Medland, described as a "petulant, self-centred man" incapable of dealing with rejection, stabbed her as she collected belongings from him near her workplace in Queen Square, Brighton, on 17 February.Medland pleaded guilty to manslaughter on the grounds of diminished responsibility but was convicted of murder on Friday. The judge Anthony Scott-Gall said Medland could not accept his estranged wife's decision that their marriage was over.The judge said: "I am satisfied, as were the jury, that you couldn't accept this rejection, added to which was the suggestion in your mind that your wife had started a relationship with another man."Scott-Gall said he accepted that tragedy had touched Medland's life before the murder, including the death of his daughter from a previous relationship and a miscarriage suffered by Mrs Medland.But the judge added: "In my judgment, your motive was clear. You intended to kill your wife because a) she had rejected you and b) because you couldn't bear the prospect of her being with another man."He went on: "It's conceded that you launched a frenzied and savage attack. Her screams alerted local residents who were witness to those awful events."This was a brutal attack that was pre-planned. Sam's death has had a profound effect on her family. The victim impact statement was distressing reading."The defence counsel Graham Trembath QC said Medland was "indescribably sorry" for his actions, and was "desperate" for that to be publicly known. He said: "He knows he will live with what he has done for the rest of his life."Trembath conceded there was very little he could say on behalf of Medland. He said: "The fact of the matter is Ty Medland swamped himself in a deep and dark place, starting really in early 2012."There can be no doubt that the learning of the fact of his daughter's death and learning of the fact of the miscarriage sadly suffered by his wife were very difficult issues for him to deal with, and perhaps more difficult than might be the case for the ordinary person because we know of the personality traits as described in the psychiatrist's report."He added: "The reality is that, unable to deal with rejection, he must have, and probably did, fester and fester and fester. It must have become an obsessive attempt to discover what was going on."Trembath described Medland's actions as "minutes of madness". Outlining mitigation on behalf of the killer, he said he was suffering from depression and had been taking medication.