A Nation of Islam member was found guilty yesterday of attacking a police officer at the Stephen Lawrence inquiry. Rasaki Yesufu-Muhammad was said to have been part of a 'baying mob' that tried to storm the crowded hearing the day five men suspected of the teenager's killing were due to give evidence. The 29-year-old care worker twice kneed Pc Stephen Dukamp in the face during an 'explosion of violence' last June, Southwark crown court was told. The constable, whose colleagues had to use CS gas to control the violence, said he had been 'extremely scared' and ended up 'black and blue'. The jury convicted Yesufu-Muhammad by an 11 to one majority after more than six hours of deliberation. Adjourning the case for three weeks for reports, Judge Jeffrey Rucker told defence counsel Matthew Ryder: 'If it is of any assistance to the defendant, I obviously have to think forward in these matters. In the extremely fraught atmosphere of that [inquiry] hearing that gave rise to this case, everything that has happened since and is still happening, it seems to me that it would be wrong to raise the temperature at all if it is possible to avoid it. What I have in mind is a community service order.' The judge, who told Yesufu-Muhammad that bail would be continued, said he would reserve his decision on a prosecution application for £1,600 costs.Outside court Mr Ryder said that while he still had to give the matter consideration: 'It seems very likely that we will appeal against conviction.' PC Dukamp had told the five-day trial that up to 50 members of the Nation of Islam behaved 'almost military-like' after filing into Hannibal House at London's Elephant and Castle, where the inquiry was being held. Two of them stood 'sentry duty' either side of a lift, while another, directed the movements of the rest with a megaphone. 'They ignored everyone else - almost like a guard at the palace." He said violence then flared when some tried to jump a queue of several hundred waiting to get in to the hearing. 'At least three of the Nation of Islam came on top of me,' PC Dukamp recalled. He was promptly punched to the floor before twice being kneed in the face by Yesufu-Muhammad. The officer managed to grab his leg, and hang on 'for dear life'. But in evidence Yesufu-Muhammad of Brunel Close, Northolt, Middlesex, insisted he had simply been hunting for his glasses when the constable struck him with his baton, put him in a headlock and dragged him across the floor. The Nation of Islam, added the care worker, stood for 'peace and orderliness' and 'emanated contagious love'. A written statement by Stephen Lawrence's father, Neville, was read to the court. Mr Lawrence, who paid a brief visit to the court yesterday, said the Nation of Islam had attended the inquiry at his invitation. He could 'not imagine them starting trouble'. In his final address to the jury, Mr Ryder insisted police had arrested the wrong man and then tried to conceal the fact. 'The cover-ups, the denials and the massaging of the truth needs to stop,' he said.