The former partner of the mother of Shannon Matthews has been arrested in connection with the alleged abduction of the nine-year-old schoolgirl, police said today. Craig Meehan, of Moorside Road, Dewsbury Moor, was arrested yesterday on suspicion of perverting the course of justice.The 22-year-old was later bailed pending further inquiries, West Yorkshire police said.A police spokesman said Meehan had been arrested along with his former partner Karen Matthews and his uncle Michael Donovan. They were all detained on suspicion of perverting the course of justice in relation to Shannon's disappearance. "A 22-year-old man, a 32-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man have been re-arrested, all on suspicion of perverting the course of justice," the force spokesman said. "All have been bailed to a later date." Donovan, 39, of Lidgate Gardens, Batley Carr, was charged with Shannon's kidnap and imprisonment in March. He will go on trial at Leeds crown court on November 11 alongside 32-year-old Matthews, who is charged with child neglect and perverting the course of justice.This is the first time Meehan has been arrested in connection with Shannon's disappearance.  The schoolgirl, who went missing on February 19, was discovered hidden in the base of a bed in a flat a mile from her home after a 24-day search by police. Other members of Meehan's family have been arrested by officers investigating Shannon's disappearance and released on bail pending further inquiries. Earlier today, Meehan appeared at Dewsbury magistrates court, charged with unrelated offences of possessing child pornography. He denied possessing 140 indecent images of children on a computer and elected to stand trial before magistrates rather than by a jury at a crown court. An application for bail was refused and he was remanded back into custody to appear again before the same court on May 14. He was charged with 11 offences of possession of indecent images of children after being arrested earlier this month by officers investigating Shannon's disappearance.