What do Turkey, Korea, Morocco, Uganda, Algeria, Uzbekistan, China, the Russian Federation and Egypt have in common? One is that they all have political regimes that most British people would find it intolerable to live under. Another is that these countries all set their age of criminal responsibility at a level higher than England and Wales (currently age 10) and Scotland (eight).Looked at another way, at what age should a child be able to decide to get a tattoo on their arm? Some might feel that the current legal age of 18 is too high. Few would argue that primary school children should be able to decide for themselves. Or what of the legal right to vote, currently set at 18? There is an ongoing debate about whether it should be lowered to 16. But would anyone seriously propose it should be lowered to 12, or possibly 10?A young person cannot get married until they are 18, or 16 with the consent of their parents. As for sex, a young person has to be 16 before they can be said to have consented to sex. Anyone suggesting that a 10- or 12-year-old child might freely consent to sex would attract disapproving glances and disbelief. In some circumstances they might be reported to the police.There are good reasons why Britain and other countries set minimum ages at which children and young people are allowed to make decisions without appropriate adult oversight and consent. It is related to judgments about a child's intellectual, emotional and mental maturity. No child should be placed in a position where they are making far-reaching decisions about their future without appropriate adult support, guidance and, in some circumstances, veto. Adults take responsibility for decisions affecting children and young people because they do not necessarily have the capacity to do so themselves.According to the United Nations, the same principles should apply to the age of criminal responsibility. The Beijing Rules for the administration of juvenile justice, adopted by the General Assembly in 1985, specifies that the lower age of criminal responsibility "shall not be fixed at too low an age level, bearing in mind the facts of emotional, mental and intellectual maturity". It goes on to argue that countries should "consider whether a child can live up to the moral and psychological components of criminal responsibility" and notes that if the age of criminal responsibility is set too low "the notion of responsibility would become meaningless". On this basis the minimum age of criminal responsibility in the UK should be 16. Probably it should be 18. In the UK, our notions about criminal responsibility are meaningless. We set the age of criminal responsibility too low because adult society does not have the collective capacity to imagine a system for dealing humanely with children and young people who break laws created by adults, largely to police the behaviour of adults. We prefer to punish children and young people, so relieving ourselves of the responsibility of thinking seriously about what it would mean to treat children and young people with compassion, dignity and respect.