A gang of counterfeiters printed more than £5m in fake notes, selling on freshly issued £20 notes for £3.50 each.The oldest member of the conspiracy – organised, according to detectives, like a streamlined private enterprise – was an 83-year-old widower from west London.The forged £20 and €50 notes were "professionally produced", Bank of England officials admitted. A significant number were used in shops and routine cash purchases before being weeded out by experienced bank workers.Sophisticated scanning software enabled the gang, from Scotland and London, to automate production of fraudulent security features – a job carried out by hand in previous counterfeiting conspiracies. The silver strip and hologram from the picture were removed and embossed back on after the fake notes were printed.The gang began working with Thomas McAnea, 58, a Glaswegian printer and veteran forger known as "Hologram Tam" who was jailed in 2007, but transferred their operation south, where a printing press was set up in a flat in Chiswick.Eight of 11 men charged, including 83-year-old Dennis Hancox, pleaded guilty before the trial at Snaresbrook crown court in east London. The remaining three were acquitted late yesterday, enabling details of the plot to be revealed.Those found not guilty included the man originally alleged to have been the gang's financier, George Short, 56, of Cumbernauld, near Glasgow. Short, Mark Fish, 31, of east London and Kevin Carr, 32, had all denied counterfeiting currency and were cleared by the jury.Detectives from the Serious Organised Crime Agency (Soca) monitored the gang's movements over a 10-month period, between October 2006 and July 2007.Conversations were recorded during their meetings held in places as diverse as Claridge's hotel and South Acton Working Men's Club. On one occasion, a gang member remarked he was "doing the 50s and should be able to rack up 10 grand a week"; another observed: "I will buy a box to muffle the compressor. I can do 800 in half an hour."Gang members were seen passing black plastic bags stuffed full of counterfeit cash to each other as the money was moved along the production line.A foiling machine, for inserting metal strips in the notes, was purchased for £9,000 and installed in Hancox's living room. It was later moved for fear that it disturbed the neighbours.When detectives finally raided premises in July 2007, they seized forged £20 notes with a face value of £600,000 and €1.2m in counterfeit €50 bills. Banknote forgeries worth more than €5m were eventually recovered.A leading detective said a note recovered from the gang implied that "£20 notes were being sold off for £3.50". He added: "We would like to think that we have seized the vast majority of the notes. Some of the notes did get out into the economy. The £20 notes were the older variety, with a picture of Sir Edward Elgar on the reverse."A Bank of England spokesman said: "They were professionally produced. Some were passed. The new £20 note has enhanced security features."Dennis Hancox, 83, of Chiswick, west London; James Allam, 59, of Hanwell, west London; Michael Duffy, 60, of Chiswick; Angus Weaver, 52, of Bethnal Green, east London; Tony Rees, 46, of Harold Hill, Essex: James Watson, 58, of Castlemilk, Glasgow; Donald O'Flynn, 67, of Dunstable, Bedfordshire, and Sheriff Oki, 29, of Walthamstow, east London have all pleaded guilty.All will be sentenced at Snaresbrook Crown Court later this month.