Fifteen members of a South African Airlines flight crew were arrested at Heathrow airport yesterday after cocaine worth £250,000 was discovered in a bag on an overnight flight from Johannesburg. The crew were still being questioned late last night by officers from HM Revenue & Customs who were investigating links to arrests in January, when 15 crew from the same airline were questioned after £310,000 worth of cannabis and cocaine were found in three bags on the same route.Yesterday's arrests were made after UK Border Agency officers discovered the 5kg of cocaine during a search close to the baggage reclaim area. The case was passed to HMRC, who questioned the suspects."Those arrested are now being held in custody and will be interviewed by HMRC investigation officers," said Bob Gaiger, an HMRC spokesman at Heathrow. "Crew members are subject to the same customs checks as any other person when entering the UK. HMRC, together with UKBA, play a vital role in the fight to prevent illegal drugs from entering the UK and in protecting our communities from the violence and corruption that always accompany this hideous trade."The discovery is the second such incident involving the airline in a month. On 21 January, a crew of 10 women and five men were questioned after the discovery of 50kg of cannabis, with a street value of £150,000, and 4kg of cocaine, worth £160,000, on their flight from Johannesburg.The crew, including the three pilots, were released on unconditional bail and ordered to report back to HMRC investigators at Heathrow airport's police station on 23 March.At the time of the arrests, Robyn Chalmers, the airline's head of group corporate affairs, said the carrier was co-operating fully with British authorities."The airline has also launched an investigation into this matter, involving SAA aviation security and the South African police crime intelligence unit," he said. "SAA has a zero tolerance approach towards the use of the airline's services for any criminal activity."The airline could not be reached for comment last night. It is currently in turmoil after the suspension of its chief executive, Khaya Ngqula. The airline's board has commissioned an independent investigation into corruption allegations surrounding Ngqula. A spokeswoman for HMRC said the arrests were the first time in recent memory that airline crews had been suspected of smuggling into the UK anything more than a small amount of tobacco over the legal allowance.