Police are questioning three men on suspicion of murder after a 22-year-old was killed by a train following an altercation at Guildford station at the weekend.The dead man, named locally and in tributes on social media as Ryan Harrison from Woking in Surrey, was with a friend at the station when he was involved in a confrontation at around 11.40pm on Saturday, British Transport police (BTP) said. Shortly afterwards he was struck by a train. Ambulance crews declared him dead at the scene.Police arrested two men aged 19, from Guildford, and a third man, from nearby Cranleigh, on suspicion of murder. BTP detectives are appealing for more information.The officer leading the investigation, Detective Chief Inspector Iain Miller, said: "Our thoughts are very much with the man's family at this acutely difficult time for them. They're trying to come to terms with what has happened and at this stage, quite understandably, they have asked to be left alone to grieve."The station was cordoned off until the early hours of Sunday morning while forensic officers conducted a thorough search and my team of detectives are working to establish the full circumstances surrounding the death, which we are currently treating as suspicious."Three men were arrested in connection with the incident and they remain in custody being questioned by detectives."Clearly the man's family will have many questions about the circumstances leading up to his death but at this time the full sequence of events is unclear. However, we will do everything we can to shed light on what took place on Saturday night."We'll be making local inquiries, including checking whether the incident was captured by CCTV cameras, but we know that there were a number of other people at the station at the time and want to hear from them. If you were there and have any information, no matter how insignificant it might seem, please get in touch."Friends paid tribute to Harrison on social media. One, Jake Lund, wrote on Facebook: "cant believe this has happened to such a nice person, rip Ryan". Another, Amir Ahmed, wrote on Twitter: "RIP Ryan Harrison. Still in shock. Gone, but never forgotten."